Skip to Content

#

|

##  Course Catalog

Office of the Registrar, 106 Steele Hall Syracuse, NY 13244 | (315) 443-2422

  * ﻿ Like Us on Facebook
  * ﻿ Follow Us on Twitter

  * Accessibility
  * Accreditation
  * Emergencies
  * Privacy

  
---  
2023-2024 Graduate Course Catalog Syracuse University |   
|  |  2023-2024 Graduate Course Catalog |  |  Select a Catalog 2024-2025 Undergraduate Course Catalog 2024-2025 Graduate Course Catalog 2023-2024 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2023-2024 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2022-2023 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2022-2023 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2014-2015 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2014-2015 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] |   
---|---  
|  Sep 19, 2024  |   
|  |  **HELP** 2023-2024 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]  

#  David B. Falk College of Sport and Human Dynamics

![Print this page.](img/print.gif)Print this Page Facebook this Page (opens a
new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window)  
---  
  
* * *  
  
  * Academic Offerings
  * Faculty
  * Courses
  * Academic Departments

|

  * About the College
  * Graduate Program Overview

  
---|---  
  
![](/mime/media/36/5810/Dean%20Jordan.jpg)

Jeremy S. Jordan, Dean  
falk.syr.edu/

### About the College (Graduate Study)

#### David B. Falk College of Sport and Human Dynamics

Welcome to the David B. Falk College of Sport and Human Dynamics. Our legacy
spans a century, weaving the values of human connection, civic service and
social justice into our academic offerings. We foster student growth by
engaging diverse perspectives around our shared values. Falk College brings
together Syracuse University's departments of Exercise Science, Human
Development and Family Science, Marriage and Family Therapy, Nutrition and
Food Studies, Public Health, Social Work, and Sport Management in an
environment of cross-disciplinary teaching, research, practice, and service.
Students benefit greatly from a powerful alumni network. Through classroom
learning and hands-on experience in our customized learning laboratories and
through community field opportunities, our students learn by example and
training to become professionals who will provide services that enhance the
emotional and physical well-being of individuals, families, and communities.

As educators, Falk College faculty and staff are focused on students' academic
programs and set high expectations for them in the classroom and community.
Many attributes make Falk College unique, including:

Students in all Falk College academic programs can conduct research working
with faculty mentors across Syracuse University, an R1 research institution.
The Falk Office of Research Development (FORD) is a dedicated college resource
for Falk faculty and student researchers.

Students benefit from Falk College's numerous long-term relationships with
national and Central New York-area agencies and businesses by gaining hands-on
learning through internships and field placements, making them job-ready upon
graduation.

Graduate students are eligible to join Syracuse University's Future
Professoriate Program that provides structured professional development
experience for aspiring faculty.

Members of Falk College faculty have tremendous global connections in their
respective fields; consequently, students benefit from these connections
through internship/job placement opportunities, one-on-one career guidance,
and guest lectures on campus.

Falk College's leadership team includes:

  * Chandice Haste-Jackson, Associate Dean, Student Services
  * Kay Bruening, Associate Dean, Academic Affairs
  * Katherine McDonald, Associate Dean, Research

### Mission and Goals

Falk College is committed to improving the health and well-being of
individuals of all ages, their families, and their communities through
scholarship, practice, civic engagement, advocacy, and entrepreneurial
leadership within the framework of principles of social justice. This is an
exciting time at Falk College as our traditional academic programs that focus
on social responsibility and justice are merging with new and evolving majors
reflective of educating global citizens whose leadership changes the people
and places where they live and work.

### Accreditation

  * Falk College offers accredited programs in nutrition science and dietetics at the undergraduate level and nutrition science at the graduate level accredited by the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics' Accreditation Council for Education in Nutrition and Dietetics.
  * Falk College's bachelor's degree in public health and master of public health degree are accredited by the Council on Education for Public Health (CEPH).
  * The M.A. and Ph.D. programs in marriage and family therapy are accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Marriage and Family Therapy Education (COAMFTE).
  * All social work programs are fully accredited through the Council on Social Work Education (CSWE).

### Graduate Program Overview

David B. Falk College of Sport and Human Dynamics

The David B. Falk College of Sport and Human Dynamics is one of Syracuse
University's most service-oriented colleges, where cross-professional
collaboration is the cornerstone of teaching, research, and practice. Like
professionals in the field, students and faculty in the college work and learn
together across discipline lines to find new, more effective approaches to
important health and social issues. Master's degree programs are offered in
exercise science, human development and family science, food studies, marriage
and family therapy, nutrition science, public health, social work, sport
analytics, and sport management; Ph.D. programs are offered in exercise
science, human development and family science, and marriage and family
therapy.

Students prepare to become professionals who create a stronger, more equitable
society for all. Faculty members include high-impact researcher as well as
current and former practitioners who provide a real-world perspective on the
professional field. Our small college atmosphere allows for personalized
attention from the faculty and staff who guide students through the
educational experience. Requirements are flexible in each program of study,
allowing students to choose course combinations to match their personal and
professional interests. Additional University resources allow students to
further enhance their studies and professional development.

The integration of theory and practice is at the heart of the college's
mission. Through field and clinical placements in a wide variety of settings,
students gain valuable hands-on experience that complements their classroom
learning and better prepares them for their careers.

Today's Falk College graduates hold positions of importance and distinction
all over the world in such fields as health care, education, research, child
development, dietetics, nutrition, communications, community and social
service, family therapy, government, business, and industry, among many
others.

**For more information about Falk College graduate admissions, please call or
visit our admissions office at:**  
  
David B. Falk College of Sport and Human Dynamics  
340 White Hall  
Syracuse, New York 13244  
(315) 443-5555  
falk@syr.edu

### Fees

Laboratory fees are required in certain courses where specialized equipment
and materials are provided. A technology fee is assessed for all Falk College
majors and minors, and all non-Falk students who take a Falk College course.
Complete breakdown for Falk College Fees may be found in the annual Tuition
Fees and Related Policies Bulletin.

#### Graduate Financial Assistance

Falk College academic programs offer a limited number of graduate
assistantships and tuition scholarships. Graduate admissions officers in each
graduate program allocate this financial aid based largely on merit. Graduate
assistantships in the form of research assistantships and teaching
assistantships are awarded on a competitive basis from among applications
received by February 1; assistantships are usually not available at any other
time of the year. Research assistants are required to assist their sponsoring
faculty to perform research. Teaching assistants are required to assist with
undergraduate/graduate instruction and work on research projects. Recipients
of these assistantships receive a stipend in addition to a tuition
scholarship.

Syracuse University fellowships are awarded competitively from applications
received by January 1 on an all-University basis. Doctoral fellows receive a
stipend, plus a tuition scholarship of 30 credits for the academic year.
Fellows are devoted full time to their studies and are not assigned duties.

To apply for University fellowships or college assistantships, students are
asked to indicate their interest in the designated area on the application for
admission.

#### Facilities

Falk College consists of three facilities: the Falk Complex, Peck Hall, and
the Women's Building.

Our students are uniquely advantaged by the facilities in the Falk Complex
where they learn and study. The Nutrition Assessment, Consultation and
Education (ACE) Center offers a hands-on learning laboratory to prepare
students with traditional and emerging professional competencies critical to
nutrition practice. In addition to the ACE Center, our professional chefs in
the food studies and nutrition facility work side-by-side with students in
modern food laboratories. The Susan R. Klenk Learning Café and Kitchens
provide a hands-on learning laboratory to prepare students with traditional
and emerging professional competencies for careers in food, nutrition,
dietetics, and public health.  The facility includes an experimental food lab
kitchen, commercial kitchen, baking nook and café. A video camera system
allows faculty and chef instructors to broadcast classes, food demonstrations
and seminars from Falk College to anywhere on campus and across the country.

Falk College's Milton Conrad Sport Technology Lab doubles as a student
classroom and computer lab that meets the latest programming trends in sport
analytics as well as event and sport venue operations. Students train to
operate live events using Daktronics equipment identical to what is found at
major sport venues, such as ribbon boards and a scoreboard systems controller.
Undergraduate and graduate programs integrate learning with activities at the
JMA Wireless Dome as Syracuse University is the only institution in the nation
with a sport facility of its size on the main campus.

The Department of Marriage and Family Therapy (MFT) is purposefully located in
Peck Hall in the Syracuse community at 601 East Genesee Street, allowing
students a unique opportunity for education in real time within and among a
diverse and professionally trained mental health work force. This site
includes the Couple and Family Therapy Center, a clinical training and
research facility equipped for live and video recorded supervision that
provides mental health counseling services to the surrounding community. The
MFT program works cooperatively with numerous well-established local human
service agencies that provide training and research opportunities for MFT
students.

The Department of Exercise Science houses integrative research laboratories at
the Syracuse University Women's Building, including the Human Performance
Laboratory that explores the impact of exercise on emerging markers of
cardiovascular disease risk. In the Clinical Research Lab, researchers study
cardio-metabolic risk factors, such as insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes,
in obese populations. The Kinesmetrics Laboratory helps researchers understand
the impact of behaviors such as sleep, sedentary behavior and physical
activity on health. The Hypoxia Lab features a full-scale normobaric hypoxia
chamber for simulated altitude training, investigations of the human
physiological response to low oxygen, and for the staging and testing of
protocols that are used during field research conducted in the Andes and
Himalayas. The Neuromuscular Physiology Lab uses noninvasive brain stimulation
and assessment of motor unit behavior to investigate changes that occur in the
brain and spinal cord that impact skeletal muscle function throughout the
lifespan. In the System Motor Control and Biomechanics Lab, researchers
utilize biomechanics equipment and neuro-stimulation techniques to examine how
the musculoskeletal and nervous systems produce functional movements, as well
as how these systems' functions change due to aging or diseases.

#### Research Centers & Institutes

Aging Studies Institute

The Syracuse University Aging Studies Institute (ASI) is a collaborative
initiative of the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs and the
David B. Falk School of Sport and Human Dynamics. Its mission is to coordinate
and promote aging-related research, training, and outreach at Syracuse
University. With 40 faculty affiliates from more than a dozen departments, ASI
provides multi-disciplinary research and education that is relevant to almost
every academic discipline on campus.

Bernice M. Wright Child Development Laboratory School

The Bernice M. Wright Child Development Laboratory School provides
opportunities for research, teacher training, and community service. Located
on Syracuse University's South Campus, the Bernice M. Wright School and its
programs embrace inclusion, celebrating cultural and developmental diversity,
and recognizing the similarities and differences that make the world an
exciting place. Through collaboration with Syracuse University's Office of
Human Resources and community-based service providers, the school enrolls
children with varying developmental abilities, adding greatly to the overall
classroom experience. The site serves as a teacher and student training
facility and supports research in early childhood education and development.

Sport and Human Development Institute

The Sport and Human Development Institute explores the intersection of sport
with human development, social change, and social inclusion. Created in
partnership with the U.S. Fund for UNICEF, the institute aims to provide
professional education and learning opportunities for students while
supporting interdisciplinary, sport-focused research to advance understanding
and application of sport in this developing discipline.

The institute collects and disseminates important research findings and shares
best practices among leaders, researchers, policy makers, and practitioners
who influence sport-for-development initiatives. It also provides exposure,
experience, and networking for our students interested in professions and non-
profit entities that incorporate sport as a tool for engagement.

### Department of Exercise Science

Go to information for this department.  

#### Programs

**Master 's**

  * • Exercise Science, MS

**Doctorate**

  * • Exercise Science, PhD

### Human Development and Family Science

Go to information for this department.  

#### Programs

**Master 's**

  * • Applied Human Development and Family Science, MA
  * • Human Development and Family Science, MS

**Doctorate**

  * • Human Development and Family Science, PhD

### Marriage and Family Therapy

Go to information for this department.  

#### Programs

**Master 's**

  * • Marriage and Family Therapy, MA

**Doctorate**

  * • Marriage and Family Therapy, PhD

**Certificate of Advanced Study**

  * • Child Therapy, CAS
  * • Trauma-Informed Practice, CAS

### Nutrition and Food Studies

Go to information for this department.  

#### Programs

**Master 's**

  * • Food Studies, MS
  * • Nutrition Science, MA
  * • Nutrition Science, MS

**Certificate of Advanced Study**

  * • Dietetic Internship Program, CAS (no longer admitting students)
  * • Food Studies, CAS
  * • Integrative and Functional Nutrition, CAS

### Public Health

Go to information for this department.  

#### Programs

**Master 's**

  * • Public Health, MPH
  * • Public Health, MS (Not currently admitting)

**Combined Degree**

  * • Public Health, BS/MPH
  * • Public Health, BS/MS (Not currently admitting)
  * • Public Health, MPH/Business Administration, MBA

**Certificate of Advanced Study**

  * • Addiction Studies, CAS
  * • Global Health, CAS

### School of Social Work

Go to information for this department.  

#### Programs

**Master 's**

  * • Social Work, Advanced Standing Program, MSW
  * • Social Work, MSW

**Combined Degree**

  * • Social Work, JD/MS

### Sport Management

Go to information for this department.  

#### Programs

**Master 's**

  * • Sport Analytics, MS
  * • Sport Venue and Event Management, MS

**Certificate of Advanced Study**

  * • Sport Analytics CAS

  

* * *

![Print this page.](img/print.gif)Print this Page

Facebook this Page (opens a new window)

Tweet this Page (opens a new window)  
  
|  Global Search Catalog Search  
Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Schools and Colleges
Academic Rules Entire Catalog  
Search Keyword Field  
  
Whole Word/Phrase  
Advanced Search  
  
---  
  
* * *  
  
Catalog Navigation |  Catalog Home

* * *

General Information

* * *

Academic Rules

* * *

Academic Offerings Other Programs Courses

* * *

School of Architecture College of Arts and Sciences School of Education
College of Engineering and Computer Science David B. Falk College of Sport and
Human Dynamics School of Information Studies College of Law Martin J. Whitman
School of Management Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs S.I.
Newhouse School of Public Communications College of Professional Studies
College of Visual and Performing Arts SUNY-ESF (Partner Institution)

* * *

Archived Catalogs  
---  
  
* * *  
  
All catalogs (C) 2024 Syracuse University. Powered by Modern Campus Catalog™. | 

