Skip to Content

#

|

##  Course Catalog

Office of the Registrar, 106 Steele Hall Syracuse, NY 13244 | (315) 443-2422

  * ﻿ Like Us on Facebook
  * ﻿ Follow Us on Twitter

  * Accessibility
  * Accreditation
  * Emergencies
  * Privacy

  
---  
2023-2024 Graduate Course Catalog Syracuse University |   
|  |  2023-2024 Graduate Course Catalog |  |  Select a Catalog 2024-2025 Undergraduate Course Catalog 2024-2025 Graduate Course Catalog 2023-2024 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2023-2024 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2022-2023 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2022-2023 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2014-2015 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2014-2015 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] |   
---|---  
|  Sep 19, 2024  |   
|  |  **HELP** 2023-2024 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]  

#  College of Law Courses

Contract All Courses |  ![Print this page.](img/print.gif)Print this Page Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window)  
---  
  
* * *  
  
Return to: College of Law  
  
## College of Law

#### Courses

**Law**

  * ### LAW 530 - Negotiation

_College of Law_  
1 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

The course will emphasize learning the skills of negotiation by simulations in
which students will negotiate and watch their classmates negotiate. Class
members will conduct three negotiations, a simple sales contract, a retainer
agreement between an attorney and a client, and a complex multi-party dispute.  

  * ### LAW 601 - Civil Procedure

_College of Law_  
4 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring

* * *

Procedural processes that guide the adjudication of civil actions in American
courts. Allocation of judicial power between federal and state courts,
focusing on the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. Fundamental policies
underlying particular procedural rules.  

  * ### LAW 602 - Constitutional Law

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring

* * *

This course covers (1) Judicial Review in all its aspects, including the Case
and Controversy Doctrine, and (2) Structure, that is, Federalism (Federal and
State regulatory and taxing powers) and Separation of Powers/Checks and
Balances among the branches of the federal government.  

  * ### LAW 603 - Contracts

_College of Law_  
5 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring

* * *

Legal protection afforded promissory agreements. Contract interpretation;
contract formation, including offer and acceptance, mutual assent, and
consideration. Parties affected by contracts and remedies for breach of
contract.  

  * ### LAW 604 - Criminal Law

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring

* * *

Elements of various crimes and problems of statutory construction and
interpretation. Substantive defenses, emphasizing the defense of insanity, as
well as attempts and the specific crimes of conspiracy, theft, and homicide.  

  * ### LAW 607 - Property

_College of Law_  
5 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring

* * *

Problems concerning the possession of land and chattels. Methods of acquiring
title to personal property, possessory and concurrent estates, and landlord
and tenant problems. Historical introduction to real estate, including future
interest, real covenants, and easements.  

  * ### LAW 608 - Torts

_College of Law_  
5 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring

* * *

Imposition of liability for personal wrongs as viewed by traditional tort law
and current alternatives. Historical development and policy basis of liability
for various types of injury-producing conduct, including intentional torts,
negligence, and strict liability.  

  * ### LAW 609 - Legal Communications and Research I & II

_College of Law_  
2 credit(s) Every semester

* * *

Fall Semester: Introduction to basic lawyering skills, including legal
analysis, citation, and court hierarchy and application of these skills to
complex factual situations in a mock law firm setting. Spring Semester:
Continuation of Legal Communications and Research. Skills introduced this
semester include legal research, oral argument, and the written presentation
of legal arguments in persuasive form.  
Repeatable  

  * ### LAW 630 - Negotiation

_College of Law_  
1 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

The course will emphasize learning the skills of negotiation by simulations in
which students will negotiate and watch their classmates negotiate. Class
members will conduct three negotiations, a simple sales contract, a retainer
agreement between an attorney and a client, and a complex multi-party dispute.  

  * ### LAW 641 - Fact Investigation and Analysis

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring

* * *

An introduction to the world of fact investigation and analysis, this course
will provide an overview of how to develop and scrutinize facts. The course
will cover five major topics: 1) How lawyers gather facts; 2) How lawyers
evaluate evidence/facts; 3) How to organize evidence into a comprehensive
narrative; 4) How human memory, biases, and perception affect fact gathering;
and 5) The ethical issues surrounding fact investigations. The course will
involve a significant interactive skill development component including mock
interviews, drafting exercises, guest speakers, and hands-on investigation
exercises.  

  * ### LAW 643 - Land Use Planning and Zoning Law: An Applied Property Course

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring

* * *

The course will provide an applied property experience focused on learning
strategic lawyering and practice oriented skills while developing knowledge
about land use law and the administrative regulatory process. The course will
be structured around three important elements: 1) Learning by observing and
interacting with local zoning board officials; 2) Translating knowledge into
strategic action by focusing on how to use the law to advance your client's
interest; and 3) Solving real world and practice-based problems developed from
actual zoning application files.  

  * ### LAW 644 - National Security Lawyering

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring

* * *

The central goal of this course is to equip students with skills required to
practice law in a political and bureaucratic context. It will teach students
about the organizational structure of the national security infrastructure;
how key figures make, implement, and oversee policy and operational decisions;
and the unusually diverse array of legal materials that regulate national
security players and thus constitute the "law" of national security law.  

  * ### LAW 645 - Negotiation for Lawyers

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring

* * *

This course will introduce students to the theory and practice of negotiation.
Students will learn basic negotiation skills and will be introduced to a
variety of other skills including: valuation of a client's position;
interviewing; business communications; and basic drafting.  

  * ### LAW 647 - Professional Responsibility: Becoming a Lawyer

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring

* * *

This course will cover the essential components of professional responsibility
and will focus on professional identity formation. Utilizing a problem
approach that lends itself to simulations and skills development, students
will learn how to analyze ethical issues; develop basic interviewing,
counseling, and informal advocacy skills; practice collaboration; and reflect
on the role of the lawyer and their own professional development. This course
meets the Professional Responsibility requirement.  

  * ### LAW 690 - Legal Communications & Research III

_College of Law_  
2 credit(s) Every semester

* * *

A variety of courses that build on the skills learned in the first two
semesters of the Legal Communication and Research Program. The courses focus
more specifically on practice areas (such as civil litigation, criminal
litigation, and transactional drafting) as well as courses that focus on legal
writing (such as theories and strategies in persuasive writing and revising
and editing legal prose).  
PREREQ LAW 609  

  * ### LAW 693 - Legal Foundations

_College of Law_  
2 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring

* * *

This is the first residential course in the online JD program. it is a two-
credit course designed to prepare students to study law. The course will
introduce students to the American legal system, build a foundational
understanding of the basic framework of legal and lawmaking institutions, and
help prepare them to succeed in their legal studies.  

  * ### LAW 699 - Constitutional Law II

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring

* * *

A continuation of Constitutional Law I (LAW 602) for second-year law students.
Must be taken during the second year. This course covers Individual Rights,
that is, Due Process, Equal Protection and the First Amendment, including
freedom of speech, the press and religion.  
PREREQ LAW 602  

  * ### LAW 700 - National Security Law

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring

* * *

Obtaining information about the government; restraints on publication;
government surveillance; travel restrictions; war and emergency powers;
nuclear weapons issues; civil disobedience and draft issues.  

  * ### LAW 701 - Accounting for Lawyers

_College of Law_  
2 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

Principles of financial accounting applied to business entities:
proprietorships, partnerships, and corporations; accounting for and tax
implications of business organizations; and problems with estates and trusts.
Not open to students who have more than one year of accounting.  

  * ### LAW 702 - Administrative Law

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring

* * *

Nature and function of the administrative process. Procedural constraints on
administrative investigation, adjudication, and rule making; judicial review
of agency action.  

  * ### LAW 703 - Pension and Employee Benefit Law

_College of Law_  
2 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

Tax and other consequences of various plans of deferred compensation for
executives and other employees.  

  * ### LAW 704 - Commercial Transactions

_College of Law_  
4 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring

* * *

Commercial practices under the Uniform Commercial Code, particularly sales,
commercial paper and bank collections, letters of credit, bulk transfers, and
secured transactions; business background, planning, and counseling.  

  * ### LAW 705 - Comparative Law

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

This course will provide a comprehensive introduction to the legal systems of
the civil law, with a focus on continental Europe. Many characteristic
features of the Civil Law - the absence of a jury, the relative lack of
reliance on judicial precedents, the emphasis on codification - have their
origin in ancient and medieval times. Our course will therefore trace a
historical review of European legal history and the civil law, beginning with
Roman law, proceeding through medieval times and the early modern era of the
18th and 19th centuries, to the modern period of international law. We will
focus on the emergence of the three most influential modern systems, those of
France, Germany, and Italy. We will examine the civil codes, the nature of
continental adjudication, the inquisitorial approach to criminal justice, and
comparative constitutional law. We will conclude the course by addressing the
rise of the European Union and its legal institutions.  

  * ### LAW 706 - Conflict of Laws

_College of Law_  
2 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

Legal rules applicable to disputes with contacts to more than one state or
country; the historical development of such rules; and their application in
contract, tort, property, and other cases.  

  * ### LAW 708 - Constitutional Criminal Procedure - Investigative

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring

* * *

Constitutional and statutory requirement for investigative procedures in
criminal cases. Topics include searches, seizures, lineups, confessions, and
electronic surveillances.  

  * ### LAW 709 - Capital Habeas Practicum

_College of Law_  
1 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

This course provides students with an overview of the substantive and
procedural law involved in capital post-conviction litigation. Topics include
an overview of some of the constitutional principles governing the imposition
of the death penalty, the exclusion of intellectually disabled defendants from
death-eligibility, effective assistance of counsel in capital cases, and
certain aspects of state post-conviction and federal habeas corpus procedure.
This course has a heavy experiential component in which students focus on
developing lawyering skills needed for effective post-conviction capital
litigation, including legal research and writing and effective courtroom
advocacy.  

  * ### LAW 710 - Sexual Orientation & the Law

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

Legal issues as they affect the lives of lesbians, gays, and bisexuals in the
United States. Constitutional law, employment law, family law, property law,
criminal law, and estate planning will be the areas of primary focus.  

  * ### LAW 712 - Business Associations

_College of Law_  
4 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring

* * *

This is a business organizations course covering both unincorporated
businesses and corporations. The first half of the course pertains to small
business forms: partnerships; LLCs and close corporations. The balance covers
public corporations, including regulation under securities laws.  

  * ### LAW 713 - Adv. Constitutional Law

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

Comprehensive coverage of issues of freedom of speech, the free exercise of
religion, and establishment of religion.  

  * ### LAW 714 - Deposition Practice

_College of Law_  
2 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

This course is designed for students who intend to engage in a heavy civil
litigation practice. The course focuses on the skills, techniques, tactics,
strategies and ethical considerations of witness preparation for depositions
and the taking and defending of depositions under federal and state rules of
civil procedure.  

  * ### LAW 715 - Wills and Trusts

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring

* * *

Law governing interstate succession; execution, and revocation of wills; inter
vivos will substitutes; the creation, nature, and revocation of trusts.  

  * ### LAW 716 - Environmental Law

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

Pollution control and toxic substance regulation; the ends and means of
environmental protection; the institutional responsibilities of legislatures,
agencies, and courts. This course devotes substantial time to statutory
interpretation and some time to covering administrative law, including agency
rulemaking and judicial review of agency rulemaking.  

  * ### LAW 717 - Estate & Gift Taxation

_College of Law_  
3-4 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring

* * *

Taxation of transfers during life and at death. Planning and alternative modes
of disposition.  

  * ### LAW 718 - Evidence

_College of Law_  
4 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring

* * *

Procedural and substantive rules of evidence. Judicial notice, presumptions
and burdens of proof, rules governing the receipt of oral and documentary
evidence, impeachment, direct and cross-examination, competency, hearsay,
privileges, and the best evidence rules.  

  * ### LAW 719 - Law and Psychology

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

An important goal of the legal system is to guide, constrain, and react to
human behavior. In doing so, the law makes numerous assumptions about people's
thoughts, beliefs, attitudes, and conduct-assumptions that may or may not be
true. Psychology, as the empirical study of human thoughts, beliefs, attitudes
and conduct, is in an important position to evaluate such assumptions. Over
the past several decades, increasing numbers of social scientists have devoted
substantial attention to the systematic study of law and legal institutions.
At the same time, social scientists are testifying as experts in increasing
numbers, and encouraging courts and policy-makers to use research evidence in
adjudicating court cases and in setting public policy. This course will
provide a survey of research in psychology as it relates to the legal and
political process; in-class activities and demonstrations will form a
significant part of the class. Among the topics covered may be jury decision-
making, the insanity defense, paternalism, media violence, negotiation, race,
trial consulting, obscenity and pornography, and capital punishment. Each
topic will be considered from both a theoretical and an applied perspective.  

  * ### LAW 720 - Family Law

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring

* * *

State regulation of family relations. Family autonomy, marital and nonmarital
contracts, adoption. Issues in divorce: separation agreements, spousal and
child support, property division, and child custody.  

  * ### LAW 721 - Federal Courts

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring

* * *

Essential functions of federal courts. Relationships between federal courts
and the other branches of the federal government, the states, and the
individual.  

  * ### LAW 722 - Federal Income Tax I: Individual Tax

_College of Law_  
3-4 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring

* * *

A study of the structure and underlying principles of the U.S. Federal income
tax system, including an introduction to tax planning. This course devotes
substantial class time to the fundamentals of statutory interpretation,
including: agency adjudications, judicial review of agency action, statutory
interpretation techniques, methodologies, and legislative history.  

  * ### LAW 723 - Federal Income Tax II: Taxation of Business Transactions

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

Income tax problems of the corporation and its shareholders, emphasizing
corporate organization, distributions, redemptions, liquidations,
reorganizations, collapsible corporations, and S corporations.  
PREREQ LAW 722  

  * ### LAW 724 - Veterans Law

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring

* * *

This course examines the substantive, administrative, and procedural process
of claims before the Department of Veterans Affairs. Students will learn how
to write regulations, understand the notice and comment procedures for
proposed regulations, and write informal and formal briefs to the agency and
courts. Students will have the opportunity to advocate for a mock veteran,
third party, and VA interests. The course will devote substantial class time
in covering fundamentals of administrative law, including agency rulemaking
process, agency adjudication, and judicial review.  

  * ### LAW 725 - Distressed Dealmaking

_College of Law_  
1 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

Distressed Dealmaking is designed to provide students with a real world,
hands-on understanding of the issues involved in a major corporate
restructuring. In considering the perspectives of all stakeholders and the
management of a business in financial distress, the course will explore ¿
through cases lived by the professor (including Toys R Us, BCBG, Gymboree, the
Atlantis Bahamas and others) ¿ the delicate balance of legal knowledge,
business acumen and crisis management skills necessary to maximize the value
of the corporation. Students will participate in a simulated presentation to a
board of directors to better understand the complexities of a corporate
reorganization process.  

  * ### LAW 726 - Intellectual Property

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring

* * *

Survey of the foundations of copyright, patent, unfair competition, and trade
law. For students who wish to concentrate in intellectual property or who want
a basic course as preparation for business planning or litigation practice.  

  * ### LAW 727 - International Business Transactions

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

This course provides an introduction to the transactional, regulatory, and
litigation aspects of international business involving at least one private
party. Major areas of substantive coverage include international sales of
goods (with special focus on the United Nations Convention on the
International Sale of Goods), licensing of technology, foreign direct
investment, contract and tort liability in the United States and abroad, and
the law proscribing corruption in cross-border transactions. We will also
cover subsidiary litigation and regulatory topics, such as choice-of-law
analysis, international commercial arbitration, international civil litigation
in U.S. courts (focusing on jurisdiction and other procedural threshold
issues), U.S. regulation of foreign investment and export controls, and
intellectual property protection.  

  * ### LAW 728 - International Law

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring

* * *

This course introduces students to the basic subjects, processes, and problems
of contemporary public international law. We begin by exploring the sources of
public international law; the traditional role of states in international law
formation; and the growing role of international organizations,
nongovernmental organizations, and subnational municipalities in transnational
legal processes. Our attention then turns to the relationship between
international law and U.S. law, including the principles that govern (and
impede) the application of international law in U.S. courts. Rather than
attempt to canvass the myriad subfields that comprise contemporary public
international law, we devote sustained attention to a selection from among the
following subjects: principles of jurisdiction, international regulatory
regimes and globalization, state claims to natural resources, the law of war,
and international human rights. With this foundation in place, the course
concludes with an invitation to grapple with several perennial critiques of
the international legal system.  

  * ### LAW 729 - Homeland Security Law & Policy

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

  * ### LAW 730 - Labor and Employment Law

_College of Law_  
2-3 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

Organization and representation of employees, union collective action;
collective bargaining, including the administration and enforcement of
collective agreements.  

  * ### LAW 731 - Selecting Your Jury

_College of Law_  
1 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

Students will be instructed on the procedures and laws governing jury
selection in a criminal case, see jury selection modeled for them, and will
also participate in simulated jury selection exercises under the supervision
of experienced trial attorneys. An emphasis will be placed on identifying a
theory of the case and identifying potential jurors who can be persuaded to
accept the case theory. Other topics to be addressed include but are not
limited to preparation, organization, interacting with the judge and opposing
counsel, the role of the client, and overcoming objections. ¿  

  * ### LAW 732 - Housing Law

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

This course examines housing law through the lenses of federal and state law.
Topics will include: The Fair Housing Act, housing affordability, smart
cities, gentrification, exclusionary and inclusionary zoning, federal housing
policy, community development and investment, and housing discrimination.  

  * ### LAW 735 - Federal Criminal Law

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

Examines substantive Federal criminal law, including the following topics: The
Federal Role in Enforcement Against Crime, The Consequences of Jurisdictional
Overlap, Fraud and Political Corruption, Mail Fraud, The Hobbs Act, Official
Bribery and Gratuities, Drug Trafficking and Money Laundering, Currency
Reporting Offenses, Group and Organizational Crime (including RICO), Anti-
Terrorism Enforcement, The Criminal Civil Rights Statutes, The Federal False
Statement Statutes, Obstruction of Justice, Sentencing Guidelines, and
Forfeiture.  

  * ### LAW 737 - Media and Communications Law

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

This is a survey class that covers First Amendment issues for all media,
defamation, privacy, incitement and violence, FCC licensing, political
programming, regulation of cable and satellite, copyright, international
regulation, music, advertising, and film industry contracts.  

  * ### LAW 740 - Health Law & Policy

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

  * ### LAW 742 - Entertainment Law

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

Will simulate actual entertainment law practice and will emphasize the process
by which contracts are developed and entered into so as to make use of
copyrighted properties. The student will be required to draw upon and further
develop multiple legal skills, particularly substantive analysis, drafting,
analysis of and otherwise dealing with "paper" from the other side, practical
research, formulation of advice, and participation in various kinds of oral
discussions.  

  * ### LAW 743 - New York Civil Practice

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring

* * *

Civil practice law and rules and interpretive cases and other aspects of civil
litigation in New York.  

  * ### LAW 744 - Perspectives on Terrorism

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

This unique, interdisciplinary course provides insight into the dynamics of
terrorism and counterterrorism. Specializations are offered in four areas:
law, politics, history, and communications. Law and other graduate students my
register in any of the four departments, with the permission of the
instructor. Although some class sessions will include discipline-specific
discussions in small groups, participants will also converge in a large
classroom for presentations, discussions and examinations of fundamental
problems associated with terrorism.  

  * ### LAW 745 - Negotiation Skills

_College of Law_  
2 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

Negotiation Skills will introduce students to the tools they need for
effective negotiation. This course will focus on the three stages of
negotiation: preparation, negotiation and post negotiation self ¿assessment.
Students will negotiation numerous times during the semester and will receive
feedback on their negotiations.  

  * ### LAW 746 - Professional Responsibility

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) Every semester

* * *

Relationship of the lawyer to the profession, community, client, and society.
ABA Code of Professional Responsibility, ABA Model Rules of Professional
Conduct, and American Lawyer's Code of Conduct.  

  * ### LAW 747 - Real Estate Transactions

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring

* * *

Standard residential and commercial real estate transactions, including
consideration of brokerage arrangements, contracts of sale, methods of
financing, methods of title protection, mortgage markets, construction loans,
and permanent financing.  

  * ### LAW 748 - Sports Law

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

This course will examine various areas of the law as they relate to sports
(both professional sports and intercollegiate sports), including such areas as
contract law, antitrust law, labor law, law regulating player agents, gender
discrimination law, and personal injury law.  

  * ### LAW 750 - Securities Regulations

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

Securities Act of 1933: regulation of the distribution of securities,
including the registration process, exempt securities, exempt transactions,
enforcement, and liabilities. Securities Exchange Act of 1934: regulation of
trading in securities and related market activities, including tender offers
proxy solicitations, market manipulation, disclosure requirements, insider
trading, and express and implied civil liabilities.  

  * ### LAW 752 - Antitrust Law

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

This is a survey of federal antitrust law and policy under the Sherman,
Clayton, and FTC Acts. It takes an historic, layered approach, building on the
four eras of antitrust enforcement: The Foundation Period (1890-1914); The
Rule of Reason Period (1915-1939); The Per Se Rule and Focus on Market
Structure (1940-1974); The Modern Era (1975-Present). The course covers basic
economic theory of the free-market; The Rule of Reason and per se offenses;
price fixing, market division, and boycotts; trade association behavior;
monopoly and attempts to monopolize, mergers and joint ventures; vertical
restraints like resale price maintenance; exclusive dealing and tie-in
agreements; and selected exemptions from antitrust liability.  

  * ### LAW 754 - Trial Practice

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) Every semester

* * *

Courtroom techniques and tactics drawing on substantive and procedural law and
evidence courses. Students prepare and conduct trial exercises under direction
of instructor.  
Repeatable  

  * ### LAW 755 - Trademarks and Unfair Competition

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

A practical review of current intellectual property issues relating to
trademarks, trade dress, false advertising, internet and the First Amendment,
and rights of publicity. The course features mock courtroom presentations by
experienced litigators and guest presentations by practitioners in the field.  

  * ### LAW 759 - Computer Crimes

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

This course is organized around three questions: 1) what conduct involving a
computer is prohibited by criminal law? 2) What legal rules govern the
collection of digital evidence in criminal investigations? 3) What powers do
state, national, and foreign governments have to investigate and prosecute
computer crimes? More specifically, topics will include computer hacking,
computer viruses, encryption, online undercover operations, the Fourth
Amendment in cyberspace, the law of Internet surveillance, laws governing
access to e-mail, forum-shopping, jurisdiction, national security, and federal
& state relations and international cooperation in the enforcement of computer
crime laws. Special attention will be paid to cyber terrorism. No advanced
knowledge of computers and the Internet is required or assumed.  

  * ### LAW 760 - Patent Prosecution

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

This course is designed primarily for students who plan to practice in the
area of Patent Law before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (PTO) which
permits only registered patent attorneys and agents to represent clients in
the prosecution of patent applications. The course will cover the process of
procuring a patent from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. The course will
also enhance students' understanding of the legal standards for patentability
(building upon the principles explored in Patents and Trade Secrets), will
familiarize students with the PTO's elaborate rules of practice in patent
cases, and will provide students with practice applying these standards and
rules to facts and situations encountered in basic patent prosecution
practice.  
PREREQ LAW 765  

  * ### LAW 761 - Appellate Advocacy Skills

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring

* * *

Development of skills used in the appellate process, including postjudgment
practice, creation of the record, finding error, brief writing, and oral
argument structure, emphasizing written skills. Required for second-year
students seeking Moot Court Board membership.  

  * ### LAW 762 - Employment Discrimination Law

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

Discrimination in employment on the basis of race, sex, age, and disability.
Consideration of constitutional, statutory, and other remedies.  

  * ### LAW 763 - Disability Law

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring

* * *

This class deals with federal laws prohibiting discrimination against people
with disabilities, with particular emphasis on the American Disabilities Act
of 1990. The goal of the course is to provide you with a legal, conceptual,
and practical understanding of people with disabilities, forms of
discrimination that occur on the basis of disability, and the protections
against such discrimination that currently exist.  

  * ### LAW 764 - Bankruptcy Law: Creditors Rights and Debtors Protection

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

This course will cover state law remedies (how to collect a judgment), the
rights of secured and unsecured creditors under state law and in bankruptcy,
and the protections available to individuals and businesses in bankruptcy. The
course will devote substantive class time to covering the fundamentals of
statutory interpretation, including statutory interpretation techniques and
methodologies, canons of statutory interpretation, and the role of legislative
history in statutory interpretation.  

  * ### LAW 765 - Patents and Trade Secrets

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring

* * *

This course examines the U.S. patent system and focuses on issues of
patentability, validity, and infringement. The protection and enforcement of
trade secrets are also covered.  

  * ### LAW 766 - Lawsuit

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

Lawsuit emulates, as realistically as possible, a lawsuit from start to
finish. Students will represent either the plaintiff or the defendant. The
case begins when your client walks into your office. For the plaintiff, you
must decide which claims to make. For the defense, it is your job to figure
out how to defend your client against that claim, or what counter-claims you
should bring. The class ends with a final trial. In between, you will
represent your client at every stage of the litigation - from drafting the
initial complaint and answer, filing discovery demands, answering
interrogatories, conducting a deposition and participating in settlement
discussions.

Student teams are supervised and classes are taught by the course's co-
instructors. Guest lecturers from the SUCOL faculty will also help teach
students specific advocacy focused skill sets in preparation for the
litigation's various stages. In doing so, Lawsuit utilizes the collective
expertise and experience of the SUCOL faculty to help best prepare students
for the world of litigation.

The course is a year long and consists of three experiential credits for each
semester.  

  * ### LAW 768 - Copyright-Literary and Artistic Works

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring

* * *

Advanced copyright course. In-depth exploration of a number of copyright law
areas in music, fine arts, and film; issues on the boundaries of copyright
law. Includes fair use, work for hire in both industry and academia,
compensation for ideas, moral rights, right of publicity, the impact of new
technologies on research, data bases and fact-based works, infringement on
unpublished works, and international copyright protection.  

  * ### LAW 769 - Trial Practice-Advanced

_College of Law_  
2 credit(s) Every semester

* * *

Advanced training in direct and cross-examination, witness interviewing and
preparation, negotiation techniques, voir dire and jury preparation, final
arguments, discovery, pretrial and trial ""motions, pretrial conferences, jury
trial techniques, posttrial procedure.  
PREREQ LAW 754  

  * ### LAW 770 - Corporate Compliance Law

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

This course examines the rules and standards that govern the burgeoning
subject of compliance and risk management. It will examine questions of
governance: boards of directors, executives and third party vendors. It will
examine the compliance function, organized by the nature of the enforcer:
managers, regulators, prosecutors, whistleblowers, gatekeeper and plaintiffs;
attorneys. It will also examine particular areas of law: information security,
off-label drugs, foreign corrupt practices, money laundering, sexual
harassment, etc.  

  * ### LAW 771 - Voting Rights

_Voting Rights_  
3 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

This course examines past and current developments in voting rights law.
Topics include: the right to vote, the Voting Rights Act, laws that govern the
political process, political representation, gerrymandering, election
administration, political parties, ballot initiatives, and campaign finance.  

  * ### LAW 772 - Alternative Dispute Resolutions

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

An introduction to the spectrum of processes other than courtroom litigation
that are available for resolving disputes. This includes such "pure" processes
as negotiation, mediation, and arbitration, and such "hybrid" processes as the
Mini-Trial and the Summary Jury Trial.  

  * ### LAW 774 - Asian Americans & the Law

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

In this seminar we examine Asian American legal history and contemporary
issues within historical context; and refine research, writing, presentation,
and discussion skills. We cover topics and cases such as the Chinese Exclusion
Acts, Yick Wo v. Hopkins, US v. Wong Kim Ark, Japanese American incarceration
during World War II, the model assimilated minority myth and the bamboo
ceiling, Asian Americans in the legal profession, and countering anti-Asian
pandemic harassment. Students select cutting edge research topics. Substantial
research papers and a class presentation are required. This course satisfies
the upper level writing requirement.  

  * ### LAW 775 - Internet Law

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

A survey of legal issues relating to computers networks, including electronic
commerce, the protection and enforcement of proprietary rights in software and
electronic works, privacy and security, and content regulation. This course
also explores the evidentiary use of computer records and other emerging
issues in computer law.  

  * ### LAW 776 - Investigating and Reopening Civil Rights Murder Cases

_College of Law_  
3-6 credit(s)

* * *

This three-credit course is the result of SUCOL's effort to re-open the 1964
murder investigation of Frank Morris, a 51 year old African American business
owner in Ferriday, Louisiana. Mr. Morris was pushed at gunpoint back into his
burning store by suspected members of the Ku Klux Klan. He died four days
later of burns over 100 % of his body. Although the FBI identified witnesses
who pointed to two local law enforcement agents, no charges or indictments
followed and the case was dropped. Seventy-five such cases have been
identified by the FBI and the U.S. Department of Justice with the assistance
of the NAACP, the Southern Poverty Law Center and the Urban League. Students
will each be assigned a different case to work up as a possible one to
encourage the FBI to reopen. They will prepare chronologies, potential witness
books, assess evidence and draft working memos of law on issues related to
bringing this case to prosecution. Course projects will require consideration
of a variety of legal issues, including state federal jurisdiction, federal
laws on civil rights crimes, statutes of limitations speedy trial double
jeopardy, mmunity, federal investigative and rosecutorial efforts, state and
local prosecutions, and evidence. Course projects will require consideration
of a variety of legal issues, including state/federal jurisdiction, federal
laws on civil rights crimes, statutes of limitations/speedy trial/double
jeopardy, immunity, federal investigative and prosecutorial efforts, state and
local prosecutions, and evidence.  

  * ### LAW 777 - Elder Law

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

This course will address ethical issues related to the competency assessment
of elder clients. Income maintenance, including Social Security, Supplemental
Security Income, and other public and private pensions as well as Medicare and
Medicaid will be considered. Guardianship, long-term care, and estate planning
will be considered as well. Additional topics may include employment
discrimination, housing, health care decision making, and elder abuse.  

  * ### LAW 778 - International Human Rights

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

After introducing human rights law in the context of a case study on the death
penalty, this course examines international human rights law from both a
practical and theoretical perspective. The course is designed to provide
students with an informed and critical perspective on international
instruments, intergovernmental organizations, and domestic legal arrangements
articulating and implementing human rights. Topics will include the historic
origins of modern human rights law; the content of and connections between
civil, political, social, and economic rights; relationships between human
rights law, international criminal law, and the law of armed conflict;
transnational strategies associated with implementation and enforcement of
human rights law; the importance of soft law; and international responses to
mass atrocities.  

  * ### LAW 780 - Adoption Law

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

Legal theories involved in adoption law, the attorney's role in adoption
practice, and the various legal documents involved.  

  * ### LAW 784 - Employment Law

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

This course provides a survey of the common law and statutory principles
relating to modern employment. Among the topics we will cover: the nature of
the employment relationship, the at-will rule and its limitations, layoffs and
unemployment insurance, employee mobility issues (e.g., covenants not-to-
compete), employee privacy, family leave, worker safety, and wage and hour
law. This course is intended to provide an overview and survey of the field
and there is some overlap with topics traditionally covered in Employment
Discrimination and Labor Law courses. While we will touch on some issues
ordinarily covered in those course, we will not do so in the depth they are
given when taught in distinct 3 or 4 credit courses. During the semester, I
hope to be able to provide those students who are interested with the
opportunity to represent a claimant in an unemployment administrative hearing
under my supervision. Assisting a claimant in an unemployment insurance case
provides students with the opportunity to learn about employment law in a very
practical way.  

  * ### LAW 785 - Advanced Torts

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

This course will explore the substantive laws of products liability, medical
malpractice, workplace injuries, defamation, and invasions of privacy; through
use case studies will develop action plans, draft pleadings, and other
mechanisms used in tort litigation.  

  * ### LAW 786 - Lawyer As Negotiator

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

A study of negotiation and the lawyer's role in the negotiating process.
Ethical problems in negotiation. Negotiation skills taught through simulated
negotiations.  

  * ### LAW 787 - Children and the Law

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

Parent-child, child-state relationships. Education, health, welfare, child
abuse, juvenile delinquency, and representation of children will be covered in
this course.  

  * ### LAW 788 - Immigration Law

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

This course offers an introduction to the laws, practices, and policies
governing the ability of non-United States citizens to enter and remain in the
United States either temporarily or permanently. The topics of study include
the rights of non-U.S. citizens, the bases upon which the United States admits
non-U.S. citizens either temporarily or permanently and the procedures for
admission, the bases upon which non-U.S. citizens may be removed from the U.S.
and the procedures for removal, the principles and policies behind the current
and past system of immigration law, the complex and intricate statutory and
regulatory framework governing immigration, and the roles and powers of the
different branches of government in the development and implementation of
immigration law and policy. The material in this course will implicate and
develop your understanding of other areas of law, including administrative
law, international law, and constitutional law.  

  * ### LAW 790 - Counterterrorism and the Law

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

This course will concern U.S. and international law responses to terrorism.
The course will include a brief overview and history of terrorism. Topics will
include legal definitions of terrorism, investigation and intelligence
collection in the U.S. and abroad, apprehension of terrorists across borders,
immigration and border controls, prosecution of terrorists, sanctions against
terrorism and its supporters (including reprisal, assassination, asset freeze
and forfeiture), crisis and consequence management in the event of terrorist
attacks (including martial law and detention, domestic use of the military,
catastrophic emergency measures, hostage and rescue operations), and law
reform issues.  

  * ### LAW 792 - Privacy Law

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

As information technology advances, so do concerns about the collection, use,
and disclosure of personal information. As a consequence of the digital
revolution, the field of privacy law has grown exponentially in the past two
decades.

This course focuses on the concept of information privacy generally and
examines its tension with other competing values and interests, including free
speech, national security, law enforcement, public health, and commercial
interests. The course includes units on information privacy issues that arise
in: media, law enforcement, national security, health records, government
records, financial information; consumer data; and employment information. The
course will also include a unit on international privacy law approaches
(including, in particular, the E.U. Data Protection Directive).  

  * ### LAW 793 - Legal Applications

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring

* * *

This is the second residential course in the online JD program. It is a three-
credit problem-based course that would utilize experiential learning
techniques to help students (1) integrate the doctrinal subjects they are
learning, (2) better understand the relationship between common law and
statutory law, and (3) build new skills. The residential experience will
culminate with students presenting an oral argument on a motion.  

  * ### LAW 794 - Regulatory Law & Policy

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring

* * *

An advanced exploration of regulatory decision making, focusing on the reasons
for and methods used in implementing regulation; how policy and politics
impact on regulatory decisions and relate to the legal authority of agencies;
case studies of regulatory programs, their successes and failures. Course
requirements include one or more research papers which will meet the College
of Law writing requirement. Administrative Law or Public Administration and
Law are prerequisites for this course. This one-semester course is a
J.D./M.P.A. program requirement.  
PREREQ LAW 702  

  * ### LAW 796 - Constitutional Criminal Procedure - Adjudicative

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring

* * *

Constitutional and statutory requirements for adjudicative procedures in
criminal cases. Topics include accus-atory instruments, bail, discovery,
guilty pleas, double jeopardy, speedy trial, fair trial, jury trial,
assistance of counsel, and confrontation.  

  * ### LAW 798 - International Tax Law

_College of Law_  
2 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

The course format will include a limited number of weekend lectures delivered
in residence in Syracuse, New York, and synchronously online to non-SU law
students via an online education platform during the spring semester. The
substance of the course will be taught in Switzerland and Lichtenstein where
students will attend live lectures with local practitioners and visit entities
(banks, accounting firms, etc.) which are the subject of the course's learning
outcomes. You will travel to Zurich and Saas Fee, Switzerland and Vaduz,
Lichtenstein over Spring Break 2018.  

  * ### LAW 799 - International and E.U. Human Rights Law

_College of Law_  
1 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring

* * *

This seminar examines cutting edge issues in human rights law, primarily
through a deep institutional study of the European Court of Human Rights, but
also accesses a comparative view of some of the international human rights
framework. The course will mostly take place in Strasbourg in order to closely
focus on the institutions of human rights articulation and enforcement in the
European Union and the Council of Europe. The seminar will be devoted to
closely studying various emerging topics in European rights law, which may
include: the relationship between international humanitarian and human rights
law liability; interactions between international and domestic law regarding
specific norms, such as freedom of speech and individual criminal liability,
among others.  
  
The European region is at the vanguard of regional rights systems in
articulating and promoting international law regarding these issues, and the
European Court of Human Rights¿ involvement raises a host of related issues,
particularly for states in the Council of Europe. Students will take an active
role in discussing and analyzing these and other topics. Students do not
require a background in international law, but will benefit from having one.
This seminar is a complement to the International Human Rights Law seminar and
can be taken in addition to that class, or independently. The issues in these
sister-courses will not significantly overlap. While the focus of the IHRL
class is on the system of IHRL law and its development and enforcement, this
class is centered on the substantive issues arising in the European Union and
the Council of Europe. The seminar has an experiential component regarding
international law, as well as a writing requirement, either a long paper or a
series of short papers, as well as presentations of the materials.  
The seminar combines various pedagogical approaches to engage students'
multiple learning modalities. The class is experiential and is primarily
learner-driven with a heavy emphasis on student participation and leadership.
I structure the course to encourage students' basic comprehension of reading
material to occur before class (including by assigning written responses to
the reading materials). By emphasizing and incentivizing student comprehension
in advance of class discussions, our time can be focused primarily on higher-
level synthesis and critical analysis of the materials. I use a variety of
methods to stimulate learner-driven learning and in-class discussion-
simulations, case studies, hypotheticals, debates with assigned roles,
questions generated from members of the class in advance of the class, and
questions from me. I seek to ensure that every student contributes during each
and every class, and also encourage students to take responsibility for
advancing course discussion.  

  * ### LAW 800 - Foundational Skills for Attorney Licensing

_College of Law_  
2-3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring

* * *

The course will provide an understanding of the bar review and bar exam
process as well as the skills necessary to be successful in the licensing
process . A significant portion of the course will be spent discussing how to
approach and do well on practice bar exam questions, including essays,
performance tests and multiple choice questions. Time will be spent discussing
how to learn from bar review outlines and lectures, and how to conduct a self-
assessment to understand personal study habits and adjustments which must be
made prior to the review of bar-tested subjects. The course will also cover
specific topics and skills to help students understand how to manage their
attitude, stress, and study time.  

  * ### LAW 803 - Law Practice Management

_College of Law_  
2-3 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

Law Practice Management comprehensively examines all aspects of the formation,
management, development and growth of a law firm. The course will focus
primarily on solo practitioners and small partnerships. The course will
explore forms of partnership, licensing requirements, insurance, human
resources and employment practices, accounting and finance, information
technology, marketing and business development, and dissolution.  

  * ### LAW 806 - Legal Interviewing and Counseling

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

Legal Interviewing and Counseling is a course that will introduce students to
the theory and practice of legal interviewing and counseling and the skills
necessary to conduct interviews and provide counseling to clients. Classes
will involve a combination of interaction discussion and interviewing and
counseling sessions. In addition, students will be assigned one interviewing
and one counseling demonstration to present in class that will include written
submissions.  

  * ### LAW 807 - Constitutional Civil Rights Litigation

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

Constitutional civil rights litigation deals with constitutional theory and
interpretation, emphasizing practical aspects and procedural tactics inherent
in suing or defending a civil rights claim in federal court. The course covers
who are proper defendants under 42 U.S.C. § 1983, what kind of constitutional
violation must be shown, how causation works for constitutional torts,
immunity and other defenses that have been read into the statute, how damages
are assessed, and when successful plaintiffs can recover attorneys fees.  

  * ### LAW 809 - Advanced Disability Law and Policy

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

This is a one-semester applied learning course. The goal of this course is to
expose students to disability law and policy as applied to real situations.
Each student will work on a project that has originated from a request from a
"real client" or client organizations, such as the National Council on
Disability, the World Bank, Mental Disability Rights International, or other
organizations that work with and for people with disabilities.  

  * ### LAW 810 - Emerging Issues in Int'l Law

_College of Law_  
2-3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring

* * *

Emerging Issues in Int'l Law  

  * ### LAW 811 - General Counsel

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

This applied learning course is designed to expose students to a number of
areas of practice that are common for house counsel. Students will work
individually and in teams and undertake simulations in litigation management,
agreement negotiation and drafting, employment problems, and intellectual
property practice. Students will learn how lawyers handle complex problems in
such diverse areas and may conduct research, draft agreements and file
memoranda, conduct interviews, and negotiate to resolve the issues found in
the practical exercises that will be the backbone of the course.  

Page: **1** | 2

  

* * *

Contract All Courses |  ![Print this page.](img/print.gif)Print this Page

Facebook this Page (opens a new window)

Tweet this Page (opens a new window)  
  
|  Global Search Catalog Search  
Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Schools and Colleges
Academic Rules Entire Catalog  
Search Keyword Field  
  
Whole Word/Phrase  
Advanced Search  
  
---  
  
* * *  
  
Catalog Navigation |  Catalog Home

* * *

General Information

* * *

Academic Rules

* * *

Academic Offerings Other Programs Courses

* * *

School of Architecture College of Arts and Sciences School of Education
College of Engineering and Computer Science David B. Falk College of Sport and
Human Dynamics School of Information Studies College of Law Martin J. Whitman
School of Management Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs S.I.
Newhouse School of Public Communications College of Professional Studies
College of Visual and Performing Arts SUNY-ESF (Partner Institution)

* * *

Archived Catalogs  
---  
  
* * *  
  
All catalogs (C) 2024 Syracuse University. Powered by Modern Campus Catalog™. | 

