Skip to Content

#

|

##  Course Catalog

Office of the Registrar, 106 Steele Hall Syracuse, NY 13244 | (315) 443-2422

  * ﻿ Like Us on Facebook
  * ﻿ Follow Us on Twitter

  * Accessibility
  * Accreditation
  * Emergencies
  * Privacy

  
---  
2023-2024 Graduate Course Catalog Syracuse University |   
|  |  2023-2024 Graduate Course Catalog |  |  Select a Catalog 2024-2025 Undergraduate Course Catalog 2024-2025 Graduate Course Catalog 2023-2024 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2023-2024 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2022-2023 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2022-2023 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2014-2015 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2014-2015 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] |   
---|---  
|  Sep 19, 2024  |   
|  |  **HELP** 2023-2024 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]  

#  College of Law Courses

Contract All Courses |  ![Print this page.](img/print.gif)Print this Page Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window)  
---  
  
* * *  
  
Return to: College of Law  
  
## College of Law

#### Courses

**Law**

  * ### LAW 813 - The Rule of Law in Post Conflict Reconstruction Seminar

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

This course addresses the legal challenges faced by the international
community in reconstructing societies following armed conflict or other
crises. The course is divided into two sections. Part one focuses on a number
of core issues, including defining and identifying the rule of law; the
relationship between the law and reconstruction; the question of transitional
justice and international criminal law; international human rights; protecting
vulnerable populations; and regulating the security sector. In the second
part, the focus moves to case studies, South Africa, Rwanda, Haiti, Sierra
Leone, Afghanistan and East Timor to test some of the theoretical premises as
well as stimulate debate.  

  * ### LAW 815 - Innovation Law Practicum

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring

* * *

This applied learning course allows students interested in the areas of
intellectual property and business law to apply their knowledge to actual new
technology. Students work in supervised teams consulting with companies,
entrepreneurs, or universities that are seeking to commercialize new
technologies. The finished product includes a report and presentation that
covers such things as: analyzing the technology, investigating intellectual
property protection, examining the market landscape, identifying any
regulatory concerns, and exploring opportunities for funding or licensing.
Instructor guides the issue-spotting and provides feedback on reports through
the individual team supervisors: Professor of Practice Jack Rudnick and
adjunct professors Dean Bell and Dominick Danna, and project advisor Chris
Horacek.  

  * ### LAW 816 - Commercial Real Estate Practice

_College of Law_  
2 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

This applied learning course will build on the fundamentals of the Real Estate
Transactions I course and will focus on the development of a regional shopping
mall which will provide a framework for the course outline. The course will
not only provide ways to convey many of the concepts found in this type of
real estate, but will also provide the basis to explore the relationship
between the real estate concepts and the business framework of which they
become a part. Case law will be utilized to supplement certain interpretations
of Real Property Law.  
PREREQ LAW 747  

  * ### LAW 818 - Advanced Directives: End of Life Seminar

_College of Law_  
1 credit(s)

* * *

This course will address NY health care advance directives and will include
and experiential component conducted in collaboration with Luvenia Cowart,
Professor of Practice in Public Health, and Dr. Maria Brown, Research
Professor in Social Work, both of Falk College. The legal services will be
offered in conjunction with Professor Cowart and Dr. Brown's "Healthy Living"
program, which provides services to predominantly African American caregivers
of people with dementia. This grant-funded initiative provides education,
wellness activities, information and referral, and other services to
caregivers in central Syracuse. Students will learn the substantive law
relevant for advising clients, in this case typically the caregivers, on
preparing health care directives, provide a community education presentation
on these issues, and assist caregiver participants in a "limited legal
assistance" capacity in completing these documents.  

  * ### LAW 819 - Family Law Mediation and Collaborative Law

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

This Course will focus on alternative dispute resolution in the family law
area. Students will study mediation and collaborative law through written
materials and mock exercises. The ethical issues involved in these forms of
ADR will also be addressed.  

  * ### LAW 822 - National Security & Counter Terrorism Research Center

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

The National Security and Counterterrorism Research Center serves as a working
research laboratory for law and other graduate students interested in national
security and counterterrorism issues. Students will work in teams on research
projects assigned by the director. Typically, the projects will involve
assessments of legal and law-related issues of concern to federal, state, and
local government officials in responding to national security and terrorism
threats. Other projects may examine private sector security concerns.  

  * ### LAW 824 - Advising the Startup I

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring

* * *

This course is the first part of a two part year-long sequence on legal issues
arising from start-up companies as they develop and move towards an initial
public offering. This first part covers the legal issues arising from
protection on inventions and creations through intellectual property law,
choice of business entity, basic securities law, contracts, employment law,
licensing, and antitrust. The course is designed for students across
disciplines (law, business, engineering, information science, public policy)
who are interested in the legal foundations for start-ups and
entrepreneurship. For JD students, pursuing LAW 815 and the Technology
Commercialization track, the two-semester sequence of LAW 824 and LAW 825
replaces and expands upon the previous LAW 814 and is strongly recommended for
LAW 815 and technology commercialization career. JD students must take both
LAW 824 and LAW 825; non-JD students can take either or both semesters.
Writing credit is available for law students.  

  * ### LAW 825 - Advising the Startup II

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s)

* * *

This course is the second part of a two part year-long sequence on legal
issues arising from start-up companies as they develop and move towards an
initial public offering. This second part covers the legal issues arising from
protection of design through intellectual property law, licensing drafting,
exhaustion of intellectual property rights, FDA regulation introduction,
Telecom and Internet regulation introduction, and the relationship between
antitrust and regulation. This course is designed for students across
disciplines (law, business, engineering, information science, public policy)
who are interested in the legal foundations for start-ups and
entrepreneurship. For JD students pursuing LAW 815 and the Technology
Commercialization track, the two-semester sequence of LAW 824 and LAW 825
replaces and expands upon the previous LAW 814 and is strongly recommended for
LAW 815 and a technology commercialization career. JD students must take both
LAW 824 and 825; non-JD students can take either or both semesters. Writing
credit available for law students.  

  * ### LAW 826 - Emerging Technology & the Practice of Law

_College of Law_  
1 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

This class will provide students with an understanding and the fundamentals of
emerging technologies and how they intersect with the legal profession. The
class is being offered in partnership with the NewYork State Bar Association.
It will be held every other week. Tentative topics include the practice of law
and: artificial intelligence, block chain and cybercurrency, legal analytics,
privacy, algorithms and oppression, privacy, social media ethics, drones and
autonomous vehicles, among other topics.  

  * ### LAW 827 - Corporate Financing Transactions

_College of Law_  
1.5-2 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring

* * *

This course combines diverse aspects of business and law education in a
transaction-based setting. It guides students through a syndicated commercial
loan, including the structuring, negotiation, pricing, and documentation.  
COREQ LAW 712  

  * ### LAW 828 - Advanced Criminal Evidence

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

The course will cover Federal and New York rules of evidence, and
constitutional rules pertaining to the rights to confront and present a
defense, in connection with a range of issues typically arising in criminal
cases. Weekly assignments will be designed to simulate work that would be
performed in a prosecutor's or defender's office. They will include motions in
liminie and supporting memoranda, inter-office trial preparation memoranda,
and both trial court and appellate advocacy of evidentiary issues. The course
is a limited enrollment course and the grade will be based exclusively on
written and oral advocacy.  
PREREQ LAW 718  

  * ### LAW 829 - Criminal Justice Reform Seminar

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s)

* * *

Across the country, fiscal pressures, political changes, and a growing embrace
of evidence-based approaches to policymaking have created a momentum around
criminal justice reform. These reform efforts seem especially promising
because of their interdisciplinary roots and their bipartisan support. While
some data points - like drops in prison populations and declining arrest rates
- demonstrate the these initial efforts are having an incremental impact, more
transformative reforms are needed. The seminar will address criminal justice
reform broadly, covering a range of criminal justice reform topics including,
for example, prosecutorial discretion, right to counsel, sentencing and
punishment, reentry, mental health issues, risk assessment, juvenile rights,
plea bargaining, privatization, and comparative international criminal justice
reform. The course will include special focus on three particular areas of
criminal justice reform that are currently capturing significant attention in
the criminal justice community: (i) policing, (ii) pretrial detention and bail
reform, and (iii) the opioid crisis. Students taking this course will learn
about these topics through in-class guess speakers, assigned readings, and
their own outside research. Students will assemble a final report focusing on
criminal justice reform topics. The final projects are expected to include
practical blue prints for federal, state, or local policymakers. In developing
their own writing projects for the course, students will have the option of
working alone (to satisfy the College of Law Writing Requirement) or
collaborating with others to develop reports on the aforementioned topics.  

  * ### LAW 831 - Refugee and Asylum Law

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

The 1951 Refugee Convention relating to the Status of Refugees is over 60
years old. The number of people forcibly uprooted by conflict and persecution
stands at over 40 million and is unlikely to diminish. Against this
background, international debates continue regarding the nature of the
protection that refugees should be granted, the role of the international
community, and the obligations of receiving countries towards refugees. This
course aims to introduce students, through comparative legal studies, to how
the 1951 Refugee Convention has developed.  
The module covers the international legal framework for refugee protection,
its main challenges and shortcomings, by referring to how international,
regional, and national courts interpret and implement refugee and asylum law.
Main areas of discussion will include international criteria for the
attainment, exclusion and withdrawal of refugee status, the development of the
non-refoulement principle, and the changing role of UNHCR, as well as how the
EU, the AU and OAS employ the term refugee while also noting how states react
to those decisions.  

  * ### LAW 832 - Cyber Security Law and Policy

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

The 2009 White House Cyberspace Policy Review states: The United States needs
to conduct a national dialogue on cybersecurity to ensure an integrated
approach toward the Nation's need for security and the national commitment to
privacy rights and civil liberties guaranteed by the Constitution and law.
This three-credit, one-semester seminar intends to be part of that dialog.
Some cyber security law already exists. Other laws of long standing present
issues of applicability or adaptability to the cyber realm. Many proposals
remain in Congressional committees, such as bills that would mandate security
measures for all entities receiving federal money, establish a federal
certification for technicians serving computer networks of entities receiving
federal money, and provide the President with authority to "pull the plug" on
national Internet connectivity in times of emergency. This course is premised
on the belief that much policy and law to implement it will be made in the
next few years to institute a national policy to protect U.S. interests in
cyberspace. The seminar uses an interdisciplinary approach, but no special
background or prerequisites are required.  

  * ### LAW 835 - Women in the Law Seminar

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s)

* * *

This course examines the historical and contemporary treatment of women under
the Constitution, statutes, and common law. Students will examine how the
legal system has constructed and applied notions of gender and gender
equality. It will introduce students to significant contemporary legal
scholarship on the status of women in modern America, and will explore how
gender affects legal relationships and status. Feminist jurisprudence, or
feminist theory, will be applied to doctrinal legal issues. Satisfies the
upper level writing requirement.  

  * ### LAW 836 - Class Actions:Complex Litigation

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

Class action is the most controversial procedural device. After studying the
technical issues (prerequisites, certification, notice, opt out, settlement,
res judicata) and its specific applications (consumer, antitrust, security,
discrimination, mass tort) in concrete cases (tobacco, asbestos, Wal-Mart),
you will be able to better understand the political and social implications
behind class actions. Although class actions may bring social change and right
injustices, it may also be improperly used to harass and blackmail defendants
into settling non-meritorious claims. The course also deals with non-class
aggregation, like joinder, impleader, interpleader, intervention,
consolidation, transfers, and bankruptcy. It is also an excellent opportunity
to review civil procedure concepts.  

  * ### LAW 837 - European Union Law

_College of Law_  
2 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

This course will introduce students to the European Union, its legal system
and legal doctrines. Topics covered include the European Union and its
principal institutions, the constitutional framework of the European Union,
the operation of the Court of Justice of the European Union, legislative
procedure, the internal market, and fundamental rights.  

  * ### LAW 838 - Inclusive Capitalism, Property Rights, and Binary Economics

_College of Law_  
1-2 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

One of the most important duties of lawyers is to help people identify and
secure their essential rights and responsibilities. Serving clients
effectively requires that lawyers ask the right questions. When addressing
economic rights, here are nine important questions: (1) Why does wealth tend
to concentrate in market economies even in times of great prosperity? (2) Why
does the great promise of the industrial revolution (abundance and leisure)
remain unfulfilled for most people? (3) Why does every generation of students
graduate deeper in debt? (4) What is behind the adage, it takes money to make
money? (5) How can more economic opportunity become more broadly distributed?
(6) What are the growth and distributive consequences of the fact that most
capital is acquired with the earnings of capital? (7) Is there a practical,
efficient way to enable all people to acquire capital with the earnings of
capital, without taking anything from existing owners? (8) What is the
relationship between the distribution of capital ownership and the functioning
of a democracy? (9) What role can lawyers play in pursuing these and related
questions to better serve their clients, themselves, and society? This seminar
will explore these and related questions. The seminar will not require an
above average mathematical aptitude or prior exposure to economics, but rather
only an open mind and a willingness to approach economic issues from a
foundation grounded in professional responsibility. Students will read
assigned material, do additional reading of their own choosing, make an in-
class presentation (optional), and write a paper that will satisfy the writing
requirement for graduation.  

  * ### LAW 840 - Laws of Armed Conflict Seminar

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

Mankind has attempted to regulate the horror of war for centuries. This
seminar will review those attempts, focusing on the modern era. Particular
attention will be paid to recent challenges related to the war on terror and
the ramifications for future enforcement of these key principles. Any student
interested in practicing national security law or going into international
criminal justice must have a clear understanding of the law of armed conflict.
This seminar will assist in that understanding. The student will have the
opportunity to be involved in several practical exercises that will reinforce
their learning and write a paper on various cutting edge issues, of their
choosing, related to the law of armed conflict.  
Repeatable  

  * ### LAW 844 - Emerging Technologies and Global Security

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring

* * *

  * ### LAW 853 - Comparative Privacy Law

_College of Law_  
1 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

Domestic legal systems vouchsafe and define "privacy," and its first cousin
"dignity," in different ways that strongly reflect local legal and cultural
values. Yet, in an increasingly globalized world, purely local protection of
privacy interests may prove insufficient to safeguard effectively fundamental
autonomy interests - interests that lie at the core of self-definition,
personal autonomy, and freedom. This short course will survey constitutional
privacy rights in the United States, Canada, South Africa, the United Kingdom,
and in the jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights. Consideration
of constitutional privacy protections in these jurisdictions will establish
important points of transnational agreement about how to define and protect
privacy interests; it will also demonstrate that serious disagreements exist
about protecting privacy - most notable in resolving the inherent tension
between protecting both privacy and freedom of speech. The course will give
sustained attention to the potential benefits and challenges that will
confront any serious efforts to harmonize constitutional privacy protections
across national borders. A comparative legal analysis of privacy will also
illuminate, some of the important underlying social and political values that
lead the U.S. to fail to protect privacy as reliably or as comprehensively as
other liberal democracies. Finally, and no less important in this era of Big
Data, drones, and society-wide surveillance programs, the short course will
consider carefully the significant interrelationship that exists between
privacy and speech in the context of sustaining and facilitating democratic
self-government.  

  * ### LAW 862 - Public Health Law Seminar

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

This course deals with the law which empowers, tailors and limits federal,
state and local governmental efforts to enhance and protect the health of the
general population. It will make use of case studies of government educational
and regulatory efforts in several areas of historic and very current
controversy to examine issues which commonly arise with that law. The course
will introduce students to the constitutional foundations and limits on the
essential power of national, state and local governments and their officials
to protect the health of individuals in areas where such protection may
conflict with other important rights, such as with abortion, `immoral
behavior, religious practices and beliefs, and with seat belts, ferrets and
fluoridation. It will examine the use of peculiarly public-health-protective
techniques such as quarantine and other liberty-restricting methods in the
context of traditional diseases such as tuberculosis, newer diseases such as
HIV/AIDS, and more recent threats of pandemic (including the H1N1 flu) and
biological terrorism. Recognizing the public health system's needs for
accurate information in fashioning government responses and programs, the
course will look at the law related to public health surveillance the law
about the effective collection and maintenance of information and its use in
biomedical research. In examining case studies about contagious diseases,
environmentally-related cancers and DNA-banking, students will be exposed to
tensions between the public health system's need for information and the
privacy rights of individuals about whom such information is gathered.  

  * ### LAW 864 - Estate Planning

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

This course will explore estate planning from two perspectives. First, it will
deal with the substantive aspects of estate and gift tax and property law
(including joint interests, life insurance, and retirement plan proceeds)
which must be considered in developing an estate plan. Wills, trusts, and
other planning techniques will be considered in detail. Second, the practical
aspects of dealing with estate planning clients will be considered in depth,
including how to explain difficult technical matters to the client, how to
present documents to clients in an understandable format, and issues of ethics
and professionalism. Short drafting and writing exercises as well as a
substantial paper, consisting of a package of client memoranda and documents,
will be required.  
COREQ LAW 715 AND LAW 717  
Repeatable  

  * ### LAW 866 - Banking Law

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

Federal and state laws and regulations affecting banks in the United States.  

  * ### LAW 868 - Smart Grid: Sec. Prov. & Ecn

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

This highly interdisciplinary, team-taught course covers the fundamental
engineering, economic, and legal principles underlying the smart grid. It
focuses on building the skills needed to design and test the protocols,
policies, and specifications for enabling technologies that will guarantee the
security and integrity of the grid while preserving personal privacy and
providing maximum market flexibility with minimal need for new regulation.
Students who complete the course will be able to integrate four perspectives -
technology, security, economics, and law - allowing them to lead the
development of the next generation electric grid.  

  * ### LAW 869 - EU-US Cooperation in Criminal Matters

_College of Law_  
1 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

Students will work on cases relating to most popular instruments in such
cooperation, namely extradition and mutual legal assistance with a focus on
electronic evidence-gathering. To that end the students will analyze and apply
the adequate legal framework (EU-US Mutual Legal Assistance Agreement and EU-
US Extradition Agreement and domestic acts accompanying it). Given the
transnational character of the course students will also have a unique
opportunity to cooperate with their foreign colleagues. That will consist of
conducting hypothetical cases relating to extradition and evidence-exchange
between EU-US. The students will both issue requests abroad and execute the
requests coming from their foreign colleagues. This exercise will not only be
a chance of practicing the international procedure, but also reporting and
overcoming obstacles to cooperation in criminal matters, such as double
criminality, surrounding of citizens, admissibility of foreign evidence, data
protection.  

  * ### LAW 870 - Corporate Finance Seminar

_College of Law_  
2 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

This seminar will study of the basis for financial decisions of corporations
and the shareholders, including an introduction to basic techniques of
investment decisions, valuation and financial structure. We will concentrate
on valuing the firm and its securities and senior securities (bonds,
debentures and notes). Interest and time permitting, we will explore capital
structure and leverage and possibly do some work in mergers and acquisitions.
Pre/co requisites: Business Associations  
PREREQ LAW 712  

  * ### LAW 880 - Race and Law

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

Race and Law is a 3-credit graduate law discussion class critically examining
the ways laws and courts address issues of race and construct race relations
in the United States. Primary readings are historical and modern legal cases,
the U.S. constitution, relevant U.S. statutes, and interdisciplinary
scholarship on race and law. This course studies the history of treatment of
African-Americans, Native peoples, Latinos, Asians and White people in
American law before we look at particular topic areas and contemporary legal
analyses. Topics may include equality doctrine, education and segregation,
civil rights (e.g., housing, employment, public accommodations, and legal
responses to civil rights organizing), criminal laws, policing and profiling,
and prisons, sexuality and family, immigration, and existing and potential
legal remedies. Weekly reading assignments, periodic online exercises, and
active, engaged class discussions of assigned materials are critical
components of the course. Students are required to write a 10-12 page
analytical paper on one of the topics covered in the course and based on
course materials and readings. Students may also be required to facilitate a
class discussion on reading assignments and create a research bibliography.
This law school course is open to non-law graduate students on a limited
basis. Non-law students are required to get permission of the professor before
enrolling in this law school class.  

  * ### LAW 882 - The Law and Practice of Electronic Discovery

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring

* * *

The advent of the digital age has changed the way lawyers exchange information
in litigation. Whether it be on computers, cell phones, tablets, data
management portals, or social media, the key documents and information
necessary to litigate are stored electronically, posing never before seen
challenges for today's lawyer. Whether advising a client of litigation holds
and data retention policies, propounding or responding to discovery demands,
preparing for and taking depositions, or engaging in motion practice on
evidentiary issues, understanding technology is paramount to the modern day
litigator. In this course, you will be that lawyer. Employed as an associate
at a fictional law firm, you will be responsible for managing all aspects of
electronic discovery in two cases, from the initial client interviews, through
and including depositions and trial preparation. Taught by a lawyer with
experience as an associate and partner at large law firms in New York City and
Boston, boutique practices, a federal clerkship, and as in-house counsel, this
course offers a great opportunity to learn both the law and the requisite
skills to be a successful lawyer in the digital age.  

  * ### LAW 883 - Central Challenges in National Security Law and Policy

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

Using a series of case study modules that jump off the front page, the course
examines critically the hardest U.S. national security law and policy
challenges of the decades ahead. The case studies range from decisions to
intervene and what laws apply if we do intervene in humanitarian crises,
insurrections, or civil wars, and what laws should govern when we are
involved; dealing with the Arab Spring; dealing with Iran and North Korea
related to nuclear weapons; anticipating and controlling new technologies in
warfare and surveillance; managing civil/military relations in protecting the
homeland; countering the cyber threats to our infrastructure and cyber attacks
waged by nation states, such as China and Russia; managing public health as a
national security issue; resource depletion and global warming as a national
security issue. Students will learn to integrate legal and policy analyses,
and will gain lessons in how policy is made and implemented with significant
legal guidance. Students will present analyses of case studies to the class,
and will write briefing memoranda concerning some of the case study modules.  
COREQ LAW 700  

  * ### LAW 884 - Advanced Litigation Skills

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

Trial work is a relatively modest fraction of a litigator's life. Yet most law
schools routinely offer trial advocacy courses, and largely ignore the other
practical forms and occasions for litigation advocacy. This is a one-semester
program where aspiring litigators would confront the more typical litigation
problems that would combine and hone their training in legal writing and
written advocacy, civil and criminal procedure, and privilege and other issues
arising in the course of discovery, motion practice, negotiation and oral
advocacy. This experiential course would accomplish this through a series of
classroom simulations and written homework assignments that required the
students to address a series of typical litigation problems.  

  * ### LAW 889 - International Human Rights and Comparative Disability Law

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

This course introduces students to recent developments in international human
rights and comparative disability law, including an analysis of the UN
Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities (CRPD). The CRPD was
entered into force in 2008 as the first treaty to protect the rights of people
with disabilities under international law. This course is for law students and
other graduate students who are interested in disability rights and
international human rights law, generally. The course uses disability as a
case study for the study of the development of international human rights
protections for certain groups; the adoption, monitoring, and implementation
of UN treaties; the role of regional human rights tribunals in enforcing human
rights protections for people with disabilities; and the relationship between
international human rights laws and domestic disability-related laws in
selected countries.  

  * ### LAW 891 - Climate Change: Science, Perception & Policy

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

Climate change (global warming) is rapidly becoming one of the most pressing
issues of the twenty-first century. This course introduces students to the
challenges posed by climate change through a unique multidisciplinary
exploration of the scientific, economic, policy, communicative, and even
philosophical dimensions of the issue. The course will cover topics such as
the current state of scientific knowledge about climate change, the role of
the media in shaping public opinion on the issue, competing discourses of
climate change, risk and uncertainty in decision-making, costs and benefits of
different types of policies, the Kyoto protocol and other policy initiatives,
actions being taken to address the issue, and the ethical dimensions of the
choices facing humanity. Faculty from SU and ESF in law, economics/public
administration, earth science, and environmental studies will co-teach this
course and bring to students a unique dialog that crosses traditional
disciplinary boundaries. Moreover, emphasis will be placed on drawing out the
general lessons obtained from a multidisciplinary approach to climate change:
many of the insights will be applicable to other complex, highly technical
environmental problems. This course is intended to bring together students
from a diverse range of backgrounds and does not have specific prerequisites.  

  * ### LAW 893 - Advanced Legal Topics

_College of Law_  
2 credit(s)

* * *

This is the fifth and sixth residential courses in the online JD program. This
two-credit course will have a number of different sections, focused on
different substantive areas of the law. Students will take the course twice
during the course of their study, selecting different sections for each. The
goal is to allow students to acquire a deep understanding of an area of legal
practice, appreciate the level of knowledge and engagement needed to
successfully practice in a specialized field of law, and understand how key
policy concerns can shape a particular field of law.  
Repeatable, 2 credits maximum  

  * ### LAW 901 - Externship Seminar

_College of Law_  
1-2 credit(s)

* * *

Client problems brought to a good D.C. attorney are almost always solved
through a combination of legislative pressure, executive branch pressure, and
perhaps ultimately litigation against either another party and/or an agency of
the executive branch. Very often the best solutions to these problems are
forged behind the scenes, the opposite of the way lawyers in other
jurisdictions often serve their clients interests. This seminar will feature
influential and successful D.C. attorneys and distinguished guest lecturers to
discuss one or more client problems brought to them and how they went about a
solution. Each week, students will go through a real case study problem set
that the guest lecturer encountered in his or her practice, whether in
government, a nonprofit, a corporation, or a law firm. After establishing a
fact pattern, students will discuss the various options for solving the legal
problem. Finally, students will hear from the guest lecturer how he or she
actually attacked the legal problem, and the outcome if known. Students will
also discuss projects that they have been working on along with any issues
that may have arisen.  

  * ### LAW 903 - Criminal Defense Law Clinic

_College of Law_  
6 credit(s) Every semester

* * *

Student attorneys represent clients charged with misdemeanors and violations
in Syracuse City Court. They engage in extensive fact investigation,
interviewing, client counseling, and plea negotiations, and appear regularly
in local courts. They also assist clients with civil matters related to the
pending criminal charges  
COREQ LAW 746  

  * ### LAW 909 - Bankruptcy Clinic

_College of Law_  
2 credit(s)

* * *

The pro bono bankruptcy clinic consists of a clinic open to second and third
year students, and a pro bono volunteer program open to first year students.
The upper division clinic students will represent an indigent client in filing
a bankruptcy case and will be in charge of the team supervising the first year
student volunteers. The clinic students will be responsible for obtaining from
the clients all of the information required by the Bankruptcy Code for filing
a bankruptcy case, organizing that information, drafting the petition and
schedules, and representing the client at the official meeting of creditors.
Students will also address an legal issues that arise in the case. The class
component will involve formal training in basic consumer bankruptcy law and
practice, and an open discussion of issues that arise in the cases.  

  * ### LAW 910 - LondonEx: Clinical Internship

_College of Law_  
6 credit(s) Only during the summer

* * *

Students will spend the first week of the seven week program attending
lectures by authorities in English law. This introduction to the English Legal
System will prepare the students for their internships by providing an
overview of the fundamental tenets of English law, with an emphasis on English
legal institutions, court structure, the legal profession, and adjudicative
procedure in both civil and criminal cases. Classes during this first week
will meet for a minimum of 15 hours and will be supplemented by visits to one
of the Inns of Court and the Houses of Parliament and by a guided tour of
Legal London. Following this first week of classes, students will undertake
six-week internships with barristers, solicitors, public agencies or other
legal organizations, under the supervision of Syracuse University College of
Law faculty. Internships are full-time jobs, and students are expected to work
the normal hours at their placements.. During this six-week period these
internship experiences are augmented by once-a-week, two-hour evening seminars
conducted by the program faculty and cooperating English practitioners.  
Repeatable  

  * ### LAW 912 - Elder and Health Law Clinic

_College of Law_  
6 credit(s) Every semester

* * *

This clinical course will focus on representation of the elderly in a variety
of substantive areas, with initial focus on administrative proceedings
regarding public benefits, especially Medicaid. Students will have substantial
opportunities to interview and counsel clients, conduct fact investigation,
grapple with thorny ethical issues unique to elderly clients, and advocate for
clients in a variety of settings, including in administrative proceedings.
Students will have primary responsibility for their cases, under the guidance
of the faculty member. There may be opportunities for collaboration with
medical staff from the SUNY Upstate Geriatric Clinic and other professionals
working with the elderly.  
COREQ LAW 746 OR LAW 647  

  * ### LAW 914 - Low Income Taxpayer Clinic

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) Every semester

* * *

The Low Income Taxpayer Clinic offers legal assistance to low income taxpayers
who have controversies with the I.R.S. The controversies may include
collection, examination, appeals or Tax Court matters. Student attorneys will
also be involved in community outreach and education regarding income tax
matters.  
COREQ LAW 722 AND (LAW 746 OR LAW 647 )  

  * ### LAW 920 - NY Lawyer Seminar

_College of Law_  
2 credit(s) Every semester

* * *

The NY Externship Program provides students with the opportunity to work with
lawyers. The program consists of a two-credit seminar that meets once a week
which discusses lawyering as a profession and a 2 or 3 credit yearlong
externship placement during which students work under the supervision of a
lawyer in offices throughout Upstate New York.  
COREQ LAW 746 OR LAW 647  

  * ### LAW 921 - NYEx

_College of Law_  
2-12 credit(s) Every semester

* * *

This is a 2-12 credit externship placement where students work under the
supervision of a lawyer in offices throughout Central New York.  

  * ### LAW 923 - Disability Rights Clinic

_College of Law_  
6 credit(s) Every semester

* * *

The Disability Rights Clinic is dedicated to providing representation to
individuals and groups in our community who are unable to secure
representation elsewhere. One reason DRC clients are unable to find other
lawyers to represent them is due to their lack of financial resources. In our
community, as elsewhere, the vast majority of lawyers provide legal assistance
only to those who can afford to pay for their services. And in recent years,
federal funding, the major source of funding for legal services for people
with low or no incomes, has been reduced dramatically. A second reason DRC
clients are unable to find lawyers elsewhere relates to the types of cases
they may have which may involve controversial issues or conflicts of interest
for other lawyers. DRC student attorneys practice in federal and state courts,
and before administrative agencies in a broad range of civil rights matters,
including race, gender, age and disability discrimination, sexual harassment,
prisoners rights, immigration, accessibility under the Americans with
Disabilities Act, and employment matters.  
COREQ LAW 746 OR LAW 647 AND LAW 763  

  * ### LAW 926 - Veterans Legal Clinic

_College of Law_  
6 credit(s)

* * *

COREQ LAW 746 OR LAW 647  

  * ### LAW 931 - Pro Bono Scholars Program Externship

_College of Law_  
10 credit(s)

* * *

Students in the final year of law school to devote their last semester of
study to performing pro bono service for the poor through an approved
externship, legal services provider, law firm, or corporation. Placements are
available in Central New York and Washington, DC. Only students selected by
the Pro Bono Scholars Program committee and approved by the New York Court of
Appeals may register for the course. Students accepted for the Program will
spend 12 weeks working full time in a placement beginning in March. Students
will also have a seminar component, Pro Bono Scholars Seminar, for which they
will earn two credits.  

  * ### LAW 940 - Studying Disability in Japan and the U.S.: A Comparative Approach to Laws, Policies, & Perspectives

_College of Law_  
1 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

Travel to Tokyo, Kyoto, and Hiroshima to compare Japan and the United States
under a disability studies lens. You will draw on a number of disciplines,
including policy, law, and education, for a close-up look at policies and
practices in Japan. Tour sites of disability in Japan - schools, institutions,
and government offices - and meet people with disabilities, all in an effort
to learn how disability is negotiated.  

  * ### LAW 955 - Transactional Law Clinic

_College of Law_  
6 credit(s) Every semester

* * *

The Transactional Law Clinic is one of only a handful of law school clinics
nationwide which provide students the opportunity to represent not-for-profit
housing and community organizations involved in affordable housing development
and community economic development for people with low incomes. The
Transactional Law Clinic was founded in 1988 with a grant from the United
States Department of Education Clinical Legal Experience Program. Since 1989,
Associate Professor Deborah Kenn has directed Clinic, which upon the
conclusion of the United States Department of Education grant in 1992, has
been funded in full by the College of Law.  
COREQ LAW 746 OR LAW 647  

  * ### LAW 957 - Childrens Rights & Family Law Clinic

_College of Law_  
6 credit(s) Every semester

* * *

This combined clinical offering is designed for students interested in
developing legal skills in the area of children's rights and in handling
various civil cases. Students will assist in cases pertaining to education,
school disciplinary hearings, suspension hearings, children's access to public
education and public housing. Students will also represent clients in court
and in negotiations to enforce child and spousal support and on divorce and
custody cases. Representation of the clients includes interviewing witnesses,
gathering evidence, negotiation settlements, appearing in court, and
conducting hearings and trials. During the seminar, students will discuss the
fundamentals of interviewing, counseling, negotiation, and written and oral
advocacy as well as the substantive areas of family and public interest law,
public assistance, and social security.  
COREQ LAW 746 OR LAW 647  
Repeatable  

  * ### LAW 959 - Advanced Legal Research

_College of Law_  
2 credit(s) Irregularly

* * *

Advanced Legal Research expands upon the foundation of research skills
acquired in the first year. The course addresses effective research methods
and strategies, examines the structural and theoretical underpinnings of
traditional and automated research systems, and explores specialized areas of
research (such as legislative history, administrative law, and non-legal
resources). Students will have ample opportunities to refine research
techniques through hands-on practice sessions in the law library.  

  * ### LAW 975 - Law of the Global Commons: Law of the Sea, Space Law, and Cyberlaw

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s)

* * *

Course Overview: Law of the Global Commons is a national security and
international law-based course that will address emerging legal and policy
challenges within the maritime, space, and cyber domains. The course will
begin with an overview of international law and the literature on collective
action and tragedy of the commons before moving to a substantive discussion of
each domain. First, within law of the sea, we will discuss the UN Convention
on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) and the current challenges facing the world¿s
oceans, which constitute 70% of the earth¿s surface. How is climate change
impacting the ocean? What is the future for Arctic governance and the South
China Sea? Second, within space law, we will discuss the Outer Space Treaty,
its follow-on agreements, and the emergence of private space exploration.
Where are the gaps in space law? Is this a domain for international
collaboration or confrontation? Third, we will address the cyber domain, with
a focus on the ongoing cybersecurity challenges facing the United States and
the rest of the world.  

  * ### LAW 994 - Advanced Legal Topics

_College of Law_  
Irregularly

* * *

This is the fifth and sixth residential courses in the online JD program. This
two-credit course will have a number of different sections, focused on
different substantive areas of the law. Students will take the course twice
during the course of their study, selecting different sections for each. The
goal is to allow students to acquire a deep understanding of an area of legal
practice, appreciate the level of knowledge and engagement needed to
successfully practice in a specialized field of law, and understand how key
policy concerns can shape a particular field of law.  

**Master of Laws**

  * ### LLM 900 - American Legal System

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring

* * *

This course is designed to introduce students to United States law. The course
will offer a survey of the United States legal system, an introduction to
United States constitutional law and provide an overview of multiple areas of
United States doctrinal law both substantive and procedural.  

  * ### LLM 901 - Legal Writing for International Students

_College of Law_  
3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring

* * *

This course will instruct the student in legal research, writing and analysis.
It is specifically designed for LLM students.  

  * ### LLM 902 - International LL.M. Prep Course

_College of Law_  
1 credit(s)

* * *

An introduction to the process of American legal education and assessment. The
class will teach an introduction to the Socratic method, the case briefing
system of legal analysis and introduce skills in preparation for common legal
assessment methods, including case briefing, case analysis, exam taking
methodology, and other essential skills.  

Page: 1 | **2**

  

* * *

Contract All Courses |  ![Print this page.](img/print.gif)Print this Page

Facebook this Page (opens a new window)

Tweet this Page (opens a new window)  
  
|  Global Search Catalog Search  
Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Schools and Colleges
Academic Rules Entire Catalog  
Search Keyword Field  
  
Whole Word/Phrase  
Advanced Search  
  
---  
  
* * *  
  
Catalog Navigation |  Catalog Home

* * *

General Information

* * *

Academic Rules

* * *

Academic Offerings Other Programs Courses

* * *

School of Architecture College of Arts and Sciences School of Education
College of Engineering and Computer Science David B. Falk College of Sport and
Human Dynamics School of Information Studies College of Law Martin J. Whitman
School of Management Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs S.I.
Newhouse School of Public Communications College of Professional Studies
College of Visual and Performing Arts SUNY-ESF (Partner Institution)

* * *

Archived Catalogs  
---  
  
* * *  
  
All catalogs (C) 2024 Syracuse University. Powered by Modern Campus Catalog™. | 

