Skip to Content

#

|

##  Course Catalog

Office of the Registrar, 106 Steele Hall Syracuse, NY 13244 | (315) 443-2422

  * ﻿ Like Us on Facebook
  * ﻿ Follow Us on Twitter

  * Accessibility
  * Accreditation
  * Emergencies
  * Privacy

  
---  
2023-2024 Graduate Course Catalog Syracuse University |   
|  |  2023-2024 Graduate Course Catalog |  |  Select a Catalog 2024-2025 Undergraduate Course Catalog 2024-2025 Graduate Course Catalog 2023-2024 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2023-2024 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2022-2023 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2022-2023 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2014-2015 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2014-2015 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] |   
---|---  
|  Sep 19, 2024  |   
|  |  **HELP** 2023-2024 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]  

#  School of Architecture

![Print this page.](img/print.gif)Print this Page Facebook this Page (opens a
new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window)  
---  
  
* * *  
  
  * Academic Offerings
  * Faculty
  * Courses
  * About the College
  * Educational Mission

|

  * Accreditation
  * Graduate Education
  * Off Campus Programs
  * Facilities, Research, Institutes

  
---|---  
  
![](/mime/media/18/3437/Michael%20Speaks.jpg)Michael Speaks, Dean  
201 Slocum Hall  
soa.syr.edu

### About the College

#### Dean's Message

The Syracuse University School of Architecture consistently ranks among the
best schools of architecture in the nation. The reasons most often cited are
our committed and diverse faculty, our number and variety of study abroad
opportunities, and our nationally-accredited, professional degree programs,
which provide students the technical skill and the cultural knowledge
necessary to practice in an increasingly competitive global marketplace.

Consistent with our commitment to prepare students for a world shaped by
globalization, the Syracuse School of Architecture has created the Global
Studio program with facilities and full time faculty in Florence, London and
New York. In addition, we offer a range of other study abroad options with
shorter programs of study in Turkey, Japan, China and India. We are also
committed to bringing world-class practitioners and educators to teach and
lecture at our home campus in Syracuse. Each semester we organize a visiting
lecture series featuring architects and designers from around the world. And,
each semester, as part of our Visiting Critic Program, nationally and
internationally recognized professors lead studios on our Syracuse campus.

Shaped by globalization and rapid technological transformation, the practice
of architecture, over the last decade, has undergone dramatic change, placing
the architect, once again, at the center of some of the most defining issues
of our time. The School of Architecture at Syracuse University has not only
kept pace with these changes, but our faculty, staff, students and alumni have
led and continue to lead the effort to make a better world through the design
of better buildings and cities. We invite you to visit and to join us.

Michael Speaks, Ph.D.  
Dean, School of Architecture

### Educational Mission

#### Program Mission

As a professional-degree-granting college within a research university, the
School of Architecture at Syracuse University is dedicated to creating a rich
academic environment marked by the confluence of advanced practice,
contemporary theory, and social engagement. Our primary goal is to help
students develop the capacity and judgment necessary to understand the built
environment and generate architecture as a critical response, so that each
student can engage both the discipline of architecture and the multiple
discourses-artistic, technological, social, political, environmental,
economic-necessary to be a successful practitioner and a conscientious
citizen. Through our teaching and public programming, we help students gain a
deep knowledge of architecture's techniques, traditions, methods of inquiry,
and modes of production, so that they emerge with the intellectual breadth and
acuity to meet the challenges of a rapidly changing world that demands agility
and innovation. Through both programming and outreach activities, we aim to
engage a wider public audience in a dialogue about the role of architecture in
society.

To serve this mission we are committed to the following principal objectives:

  * Recruiting, enrolling, and retaining the most qualified students.
  * Recruiting, employing, and retaining the most qualified faculty and staff.
  * Creating and sustaining a supportive academic environment marked by academic integrity, cultural diversity, and social responsibility.
  * Providing the best professional education possible by offering professional degree programs that combine expertise specific to the discipline of architecture with critical thinking skills and intellectual knowledge central to humanistic study.
  * Teaching an integrated curriculum within which courses in design and other specializations support the proposition, exploration, and development of architectural ideas.
  * Maintaining and enhancing our expertise and capabilities in significant areas of research and practice.
  * Providing opportunities for students to participate in international study programs to better understand the global forces and local cultural contexts that contribute to the production of architecture and urban design in these settings.
  * Offering visiting critic studios both on and off campus that provide students with an exposure to alternative perspectives and advanced building practices.
  * Demonstrating overall competency through a self-directed process of research, documentation, proposition, and project development within the capstone experience of thesis.
  * Increasing student awareness of and ability to engage with major issues such as social equity, economic development, and ecological balance.
  * Encouraging faculty and students to participate in interdisciplinary initiatives offered within a diverse and rich campus setting.
  * Preparing graduates to enter the profession in a variety of ways, with strong basic design skills coupled with the technical ability, business acumen and an understanding of the ethical role of the architect in society.
  * Supporting faculty achievement in creative activity and scholarly research.
  * Generating advocacy and support for School initiatives from alumni, faculty, staff, and advisory board members, and among civic and business leaders.

#### Syracuse Architecture Studio Culture

The primary goals of the School of Architecture at Syracuse University are to
promote research into architecture and to educate students for professional
practice and other forms of architectural engagement. Faculty instructors
challenge students to develop the capacity for understanding the built
environment and generating architectural design proposals as a critical
response. They assist students in cultivating manifold design capabilities
linked to critical intelligence about the discipline and supported by state-
of-the-field expertise in representation, technology, structures, theory and
history.

A central component of this mission is the cultivation of a learning
environment that supports students in the fullest development of their
capacities as designers, scholars, professionals, and citizens. To this end,
students, faculty and staff are dedicated to the task of working together to
foster five fundamental values:

  * mutual respect among all members of the School;
  * optimism about the potential for student learning, creativity and contribution;
  * collaboration among students, faculty, staff and the broader public in pursuing advances in learning, knowledge, and practice;
  * critical engagement with the discipline, the profession and the world; and
  * continual innovation in teaching, learning, and research.

These values inform all of our activities. In the context of classrooms,
studios, and other learning environments, they translate into these
guidelines:

  * The School encourages students and faculty alike to embrace the design studio and the classroom as places of intellectual and creative exploration and collaboration. The frequently open-ended pursuit of knowledge through design and other forms of learning requires generosity of spirit on all parts, including the recognition that faculty members bring a high level of expertise to their teaching and that students bring a diversity of valuable prior knowledge to their learning. It also requires clear communication, rigorous testing of ideas, and a commitment to excellence on the part of all participants.
  * The School encourages collaboration among students in their academic work and in extracurricular activities, as well as among students, faculty and staff in continually advancing knowledge and improving the ways we work together. It also promotes a culture of engagement in which students develop intellectually, technically and ethically through interaction with problems, opportunities and people not only within the field of architecture but also beyond it.
  * The School values social, intellectual and disciplinary diversity in its staff, faculty and student population, as well as in its curriculum. In its teaching, research and daily activities, it strives to support and promote each of these kinds of diversity.
  * The School recognizes that balance is a crucial element in the pursuit of excellence, and it encourages faculty to guide students in developing the capacity to reconcile what often seem to be competing imperatives in their work and in their lives. This includes managing expectations so as to minimize conflicts among courses, helping students to manage their time effectively, and promoting an appropriate balance between academic work and the other essentials of life.
  * The School expects students to uphold the principles of academic integrity in their work and ethical conduct in their daily lives. Honesty, trustworthiness and fairness are essential attributes for conduct in class, within the university community, and in academic activities beyond Syracuse. These principles should guide behavior not only in the completion of course assignments, but also in treatment of buildings and equipment; interaction with university staff, systems and procedures; and behavior in the studio and elsewhere.

### Accreditation

The School of Architecture M.Arch program is fully-accredited by the National
Architectural Accreditation Board (NAAB).

In the United States, most state registration boards require a degree from an
accredited professional degree program as a prerequisite for licensure. The
National Architectural Accreditation Board (NAAB), which is the sole agency
authorized to accredit professional degree programs in architecture offered by
institutions with U.S. regional accreditation, recognizes three types of
degrees: the Bachelor of Architecture, the Master of Architecture, and the
Doctor of Architecture. A program may be granted an eight-year, three-year, or
two-year term of accreditation, depending on the extent of its conformance
with established educational standards.

Doctor of Architecture and Master of Architecture degree programs may require
a pre-professional undergraduate degree in architecture for admission.
However, the pre-professional degree is not, by itself, recognized as an
accredited degree.

Syracuse University, School of Architecture offers the following NAAB
accredited graduate degree program:

M.Arch - (92 credit hours)

For further information about NAAB accreditation, visit the NAAB website.

Master of Science in Architecture degrees are not reviewed or accredited by
NAAB.

### Graduate Education

Chair Julie Larsen, 225 Slocum Hall

Contact Lauren Mintier, 225 Slocum Hall, (315) 443-1041

Founded in 1873, the Syracuse University School of Architecture provides a
diverse and intensive approach to the design of the built environment. The
program is committed to providing rigorous professional training and,
simultaneously, emphasizes the creative and intellectual foundations of the
discipline. The integrated curriculum is designed to prepare students to unite
design, research, and technical understanding. Architecture is a dynamic
profession, and like the society in which it functions, increasingly complex
and fluid. The program seeks to respond with skill, intellect, and passion to
the challenges and opportunities of contemporary practice.

Students benefit from extensive one-on-one communication with dedicated
professors, in both formal reviews and informal interactions. Our faculty
members are recognized for their level of commitment to each student's
progress and represent a broad range of the profession, from practicing
architects, architectural historians, and theorists to professional artists
and engineers. For a complete listing of faculty members affiliated with the
School of Architecture, see the faculty listings under Master of Architecture
programs.

The school hosts lectures, symposia, and exhibitions featuring leading
practitioners, critics, and scholars. As part of a major liberal arts
university, students in the School of Architecture have access to a wide
variety of courses throughout the campus and have the opportunity to broaden
their intellectual and creative foundation. Students are encouraged to
participate in the cultural and social life across the wide spectrum of
offerings on campus and in the city of Syracuse.

The Syracuse Architecture Master of Architecture is a fully accredited
professional degree open to students with non-architecture as well as
architecture backgrounds. The Syracuse Architecture Master of Science in
Architecture degree supports independent, timely, and innovative research
projects in the field of architecture and urbanism.

#### Merit Scholarships and Assistantships

In addition to competitive scholarships for incoming students, the school of
architecture is committed to offering merit-based financial assistance to
continuing students who maintain satisfactory academic progress through a
variety of channels. You can find an overview of our programs here:
http://soa.syr.edu/admissions/graduate/financial-aid.php/.

We offer approximately 35 assistantships every semester to continuing graduate
students. These positions are available in the areas of teaching or research,
depending on the needs of the school and faculty. To qualify for a teaching
assistantship in a particular course area, students must have appropriate
experience, in the areas of design, architectural history, theory, building
technology, drawing, structures, and computing.  Students maintaining at least
a 3.0 GPA are eligible for assistantship positions annually. Students who are
not serving in a TA position are eligible for scholarship assistance each
semester. Additionally, we offer hourly research internships, subsidize the
cost of travel for required field trips, and offer a number of named
scholarships.

For further information about our Graduate programs, visit our website.

### Off Campus Programs

#### The Programs

Students in the Master of Architecture program have the option to spend a
summer of study in one of our two prestigious off-campus programs: at the New
York City Fisher Center, or in our Three Cities: Asia program.

#### New York City

The University's Fisher Center is based at 136 Madison Avenue in Midtown
Manhattan and offers opportunity to study in one of the most architecturally
rich and culturally vibrant cities in the world. The summer curriculum focuses
on the city's history, and morphology, and directly engages the creative
challenges of the architect's role in planning, and real estate development.
The program draws on NYC-based architecture faculty and critics, and includes
guest lecturers, collateral programming, and extensive field studies in and
around the city.

#### Three Cities: Asia

An eight-week, nine-credit program that moves between three major cities on a
single continent. While these cities serve as the primary focus points of the
program, a rich travel itinerary introduces students to many smaller cities
and sights well beyond the realm of the tourist. Three Cities offers students
an immersive studio + seminar in urbanism and architecture in three of Asia's
most dense, vibrant urban environments. Throughout the eight weeks, the course
connects students with renowned professors and practitioners in each city by
way of dialogue, reviews, guest lectures, and visits to some of the most
ground-breaking firms in Asia.

#### Short-term/summer off-campus programs

In addition to the regular semester offerings, summer and other 2-5 week off
campus opportunities are available. Options vary from year to year and are
designed to introduce students to architecture, urban cities and the
disciplinary cultures that create them. India, France, Turkey, Greece,
Germany, Russia, Spain, Austria, China, South America and Japan have been the
subjects of study for such programs in the recent past.

#### Questions

For further information about our off-campus programs and how to apply,
contact the Syracuse Architecture Associate Dean's office at (315) 443-3324 or
visit our website.

### Facilities, Research, Institutes

#### Slocum Hall

Slocum Hall, the School of Architecture's campus home, offers an ideal
environment for teaching, research, production, and exhibition. Constructed in
1918 and listed on the National Register of Historical Places, the five-story
building underwent a dramatic redesign from 2006-2008 to enhance and restore
original qualities while updating it technologically, functionally, and
aesthetically. Slocum Hall now includes a vast open central atrium space, an
auditorium as well as expanded studio, research, and office space.

The building's openness provides a cohesive setting that generates activity
and communication between students, faculty, and visitors, supported by
interconnecting vertical spaces or atria within the building. The central
atrium and additional openings in the bearing wall allow pathways for natural
light and ventilation. Facilities are closely integrated with the school's
pedagogical priorities. Public review spaces, an exhibition gallery, the
architecture reading room, faculty offices, and the café are located along the
perimeter of these atria in order to encourage collaboration and exchange.

#### Computing and Fabrication

The School of Architecture has two computer clusters containing 60 latest-
generation PCs connected to their own network and servers. State of the art
software is available for a wide range of applications: 2D and 3D drafting;
modeling, visualization, rendering and animation; image manipulation; desktop
publishing; web page generation; video production; and GIS.

An output room provides an assortment of plotters, printers, and large and
small format scanners available to students throughout the school from school
or personal computers.

A digital fabrication suite includes 3D printers using various media (liquid
and solid polymers, paper and starch), laser cutters, large and small format
CNC mills and a vacuum former.

A fully equipped workshop is staffed by a full-time professional instructor
and includes a full suite of woodworking equipment including saws, drills,
planers, routers, sanders, a lathe, and various hand tools. There is also a
ventilated spray booth for painting and finishing.

#### Reading Room and Library

Bird Library, the University research library for the humanities and social
sciences, has an excellent collection of more than 25,000 architecture titles
including back runs of key periodicals. Carnegie Library, at the heart of the
main quad, houses resources in landscape architecture and building technology.
Syracuse University Libraries also includes significant map resources, rare
books and archival holdings. The newly renovated King+King Architecture
Library on the third floor of Slocum Hall serves the needs of the School of
Architecture and its students for quick access to core monographs, course
reserves, current periodicals and unique resources like prints of working
drawings and physical materials samples. The general stack collection of more
than 3,500 titles includes such commonly used architecture books as history
surveys, titles on key figures in architecture, books on building types and
detailing, technical sources, and reference standards. The Librarian for
Architecture is on site.  The King+ King Architecture Library provides a quiet
and convenient place to study, and is interconnected with the larger Syracuse
University library system.

#### Programs

**Master 's**

  * • Architecture, M. Arch
  * • Architecture, MS

  

* * *

![Print this page.](img/print.gif)Print this Page

Facebook this Page (opens a new window)

Tweet this Page (opens a new window)  
  
|  Global Search Catalog Search  
Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Schools and Colleges
Academic Rules Entire Catalog  
Search Keyword Field  
  
Whole Word/Phrase  
Advanced Search  
  
---  
  
* * *  
  
Catalog Navigation |  Catalog Home

* * *

General Information

* * *

Academic Rules

* * *

Academic Offerings Other Programs Courses

* * *

School of Architecture College of Arts and Sciences School of Education
College of Engineering and Computer Science David B. Falk College of Sport and
Human Dynamics School of Information Studies College of Law Martin J. Whitman
School of Management Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs S.I.
Newhouse School of Public Communications College of Professional Studies
College of Visual and Performing Arts SUNY-ESF (Partner Institution)

* * *

Archived Catalogs  
---  
  
* * *  
  
All catalogs (C) 2024 Syracuse University. Powered by Modern Campus Catalog™. | 

