Skip to Content

#

|

##  Course Catalog

Office of the Registrar, 106 Steele Hall Syracuse, NY 13244 | (315) 443-2422

  * ﻿ Like Us on Facebook
  * ﻿ Follow Us on Twitter

  * Accessibility
  * Accreditation
  * Emergencies
  * Privacy

  
---  
2023-2024 Undergraduate Course Catalog Syracuse University |   
|  |  2023-2024 Undergraduate Course Catalog |  |  Select a Catalog 2024-2025 Undergraduate Course Catalog 2024-2025 Graduate Course Catalog 2023-2024 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2023-2024 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2022-2023 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2022-2023 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2014-2015 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2014-2015 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] |   
---|---  
|  Sep 19, 2024  |   
|  |  **HELP** 2023-2024 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]  

#  Other Programs

![Print this page.](img/print.gif)Print this Page Facebook this Page (opens a
new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window)  
---  
  
* * *  
  
|

  * English Language Institute
  * ILEARN
  * Mary Ann Shaw Center for Public & Community Service (Shaw Center)
  * Office of Pre-College Programs
  * Renee Crown University Honors Program

|

  * Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC)
  * Student Success Initiative (SSUI)
  * SummerStart
  * Summer Programs
  * Syracuse Abroad

  
---|---  
  
* * *

## English Language Institute

David Lind, Director  
700 University Avenue, Suite 207

English Language Institute (ELI) courses are designed for international
students and professionals who are interested in short-term or long-term study
to improve their English skills. This full-time intensive program is offered
through College of Professional Studies. Five levels of Academic English
courses are offered. Many of the students have been conditionally admitted to
Syracuse University and need to increase their English proficiency before
enrolling in a degree program. Completion of the level 4 (high intermediate)
course will waive the university's TOEFL requirement for most undergraduate
and some graduate programs.

Courses of varying length can be designed for individuals or groups with
specific needs and disciplines (e.g., architecture, business, engineering,
etc.). The English for Lawyers program offered every summer is an example of
this type of specialization where students can prepare before starting in an
LL.M. (Master of Laws) program at a U.S. university.

Highly qualified instructors, a great deal of personal attention, and
intensive exposure to English language instruction enable students to make the
necessary progress. Enrollment is limited and admission is by application
only. For more information about the ELI, call 315-443-8571, email
elimail@syr.edu, or visit the website at eli.syr.edu.

## ILEARN

Gerald R. Greenberg, Senior Associate Dean  
441 Hall of Languages, 315-443-2014  
ilearn.syr.edu

The Center for Innovative Learning (iLEARN) of the College of Arts and
Sciences supports a variety of innovative educational and experimental
programs in departments and programs across the College. The Center helps
students complement traditional classroom and laboratory work with enhanced
out‐of‐classroom learning experiences. These experiences represent active
learning at its best, tapping students' creativity, curiosity, and drive.
These kinds of opportunities also enable students to apply their knowledge to
projects and experiences that engage with current issues and develop skills
helpful in making career choices. Students may choose to earn academic or
experience credit.

#### Funding opportunities:

iLEARN has funds available for use by arts and sciences undergraduate
students, faculty, and departments/programs for eligible projects. Eligibility
is dependent on a project's relevance to the types of educational activities
listed in the mission statement. Inquiries should be made to the director of
iLEARN.

## Mary Ann Shaw Center for Public & Community Service (Shaw Center)

Pamela Kirwin Heintz, Associate Vice President & Director  
111 Waverly Avenue, Syracuse, NY 13244, 315-443-3051  
http://shawcenter.syr.edu

The Mary Ann Shaw Center for Public and Community Service (SHAW CENTER)
enhances student learning and success by supporting the high impact practice
of academic engagement in which students apply knowledge, skills and values in
diverse community settings that address global issues and complex social
problems.

Since opening in 1994, the SHAW CENTER has consulted with faculty, provided
orientations, identified and mitigated risk/liability issues, and supported
monitoring and evaluation. The center provides organizational information
about placements in nonprofit and/or public organizations for those seeking
community based service learning/research opportunities; helps create and
facilitate campus-community partnerships; and supports ongoing academic
programs, projects, and courses that foster community based service
learning/research on the local, national and global levels.

Additionally, the SHAW CENTER offers a variety of curricular and co-curricular
service opportunities at nonprofit and/or public organizations. Every college
within the University offers community based service learning/research
opportunities for students.

**The Program**

Students participate in the community based service components of their
courses by completing a predetermined number of service hours at a community
site, engaging in semester-long projects or community based research. Under
the direction of the course professor, teaching assistants, academic managers,
and SHAW CENTER professional staff, students can keep journals, write papers,
do action based research, and present projects and reports to reflect on and
process their community service experiences. The course professor assumes
grading responsibility. Academic credit for the community based learning
experience is awarded by the professor through credit for the course.

**Courses**

Students are invited to visit the SHAW CENTER office or web site at
http://shawcenter.syr.edu/ to learn more about experiential learning in the
community academic options. Students are encouraged to discuss course options
that interest them with the appropriate faculty advisor before registering.
Students can, with the approval of the professor, request individual
placements within courses to enhance assignments or course goals. The SHAW
CENTER will work to help the student and professor develop and implement an
appropriate placement, as well as assist with the reflection and processing of
the experience, when appropriate.

## Office of Pre-College Programs

Christopher Cofer, Executive Director  
700 University Avenue

High school students can explore college majors and potential careers in
college-level courses at Syracuse University. In the Accelerated Semester
Online program, high school students can take 3-credit 8-week online courses
during the academic year. In the Summer College program, high school students
are immersed in the full college experience and can choose from 100+ credit
and noncredit courses in ten of Syracuse University's schools and colleges.
For more information, contact the Office of Pre-College Programs at
315-443-5000 or precollege@syr.edu, and visit https://precollege.syr.edu/.

## Renée Crown University Honors Program

Professor Danielle Taana Smith, Director  
306 Bowne Hall, 315-443-2759

The Renée Crown University Honors Program is a selective, demanding, and
rewarding program for outstanding students who seek intense intellectual
challenge and are prepared to invest the extra effort needed to meet that
challenge. It is marked by four distinguishing characteristics:

  * heightened expectations;
  * participation in a vibrant and active community of learners;
  * intensity of intellectual experience; and
  * unique intellectual opportunities and responsibilities.

The program is open to qualified students from all undergraduate majors at
Syracuse University. Program requirements stipulate that they demonstrate the
attributes of depth, breadth, command of language, global awareness, civic
engagement, and collaborative capacity by successfully completing the
following:

#### DEPTH

  1. An Honors thesis project
  2. Interdisciplinary and rigorous coursework

#### BREADTH

1\. An Honors orientation experience.

  1. Twelve credits of Honors-specific coursework from at least two of the following divisions: humanities, social sciences, or natural sciences/mathematics. At least six credits must carry the HNR prefix. The remaining six credits may have the HNR prefix, or be Honors sections of regular, departmental courses.

2. Interdisciplinary work

  1. An approved three-credit HNR or other course with substantive interdisciplinary content
  2. In unique cases, a clearly interdisciplinary thesis project, with prior approval from the Honors Program and from the student's major department.

#### COMMAND OF LANGUAGE

  1. The thesis project
  2. An executive summary within the thesis project
  3. One course or experience with a substantial public presentation requirement

#### GLOBAL AWARENESS

One global course and one global experience, one of which must have a non-
Eurocentric focus.

  1. A global course can be completed through an Honors or non-Honor course.
  2. A global experience can be completed through: 
     * Ability in a language other than English at a level of 201 or higher;
     * An internship or other work with a documented global perspective for at least 50 hours;
     * A semester or summer abroad in a University-approved international study program;
     * An Honors-approved, short-term program that includes an international study component;
     * At least one semester of residence in a Learning Community with an international focus;
     * Participation in the University's Maxwell in Washington Undergraduate Semester residency program (IR/DC);
     * An approved, sustained, reciprocal mentoring partnership with international students for one semester under the aegis of the Center for International Services.

If the requirements of a student's major pose a significant impediment to
completing this requirement, the student may, with prior approval, satisfy the
requirement by completing two global courses, at least one of which must be
non-Eurocentric.

#### Civic Engagement

Complete a minimum of 50 hours of volunteer service to campus organizations,
the local Syracuse community or at home, or through non-paid internships with
non-profit organizations. Total hours must span three independent terms
(summer, fall, spring) to demonstrate a continuity of sustained service.

#### Collaborative Capacity

Demonstrate the ability to work in effective and productive collaboration with
peers.

  1. An approved Honors or non-Honors course that requires completing a substantive collaborative project with a minimum of three team members; or
  2. An off-campus project (which may be completed through an internship, field experience, or other activity), resulting in a deliverable artifact, such as a report, presentation or performance that is reviewed and approved by the Honors Program.

#### ACADEMIC PERFORMANCE

All courses taken to fulfill the above requirements must be completed with a
grade of B or higher. Honors students must complete the program with a grade
point average at least at the cum laude level in their home schools or
colleges (for School of Architecture students, 3.2; for all other schools and
colleges, 3.4).

Upon completion of these requirements, "Renée Crown University Honors" is
awarded on the diploma and listed under "Awards and Honors" on the transcript.

### Courses

For a listing of current and past Honors courses offered each semester, visit:
https://honors.syr.edu/my-honors/courses-seminars/

## Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC)

Syracuse University offers both Army and Air Force ROTC.

  
Both ROTC programs include introduction to their respective service during the
freshmen and sophomore years, and advanced courses taken during the junior and
senior years. Each program offers commissions into their respective service
for those students who complete the course requirements and meet all other
mandatory prerequisites. Uniforms and ROTC textbooks are furnished at no cost.
ROTC course credits awarded towards graduation degree requirements are
determined by the individual schools and colleges.

  
Interested students should inquire at either ROTC office of their choice.
Students are encouraged to visit the offices in the National Veterans Resource
Center (NVRC) building at 101 Waverly Avenue, Syracuse.

Army ROTC, Suite 210; Syracuse University Army ROTC - OVMA \- Syracuse
University  
315-443-2462; armyrotc@syr.edu

Air Force ROTC, Suite 214; Syracuse University Air Force ROTC \- OVMA -
Syracuse University  
315-443-2461, afdet535@syr.edu

#### **Army ROTC**

Students in the Army ROTC program receive Military Science & Leadership (MSL)
instruction in preparation for service as Officers in the U.S. Active Army,
Army Reserve, or Army National Guard. Army ROTC education emphasizes: the
development of leadership and management skills; decision making and problem
solving; ethics; the duties and responsibilities of junior Army officers; the
fundamental concepts of military art and science; and an understanding of
national security requirements.

In addition to a weekly class, all students participate in a weekly three-hour
leadership laboratory. This period of instruction is largely student-planned
and directed, and provides opportunities for realistic leadership experience.
It emphasizes leadership, basic military skills, decision making and problem
solving. Students also participate in the Army ROTC fitness class (PED 200 )
each semester. This class is held on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday mornings
from 6:30 to 7:30. Total weekly time requirement is approximately 9 hours
between class, lab, and the PED fitness course.

In their junior year cadets prepare for Cadet Summer Training, a 35-day
assessment course, which takes place at Fort Knox, KY typically during the
summer between their junior and senior year.

Weekend field training exercises are held one weekend each semester at Fort
Drum, New York.

#### Army ROTC Military Science & Leadership (MSL) Courses

MSL courses are offered at variable credit options of 0-3 credits applicable
to accommodate academic degree plans. PED 200 is offered at 1 credit hour.

**Fall Semester: **

MSL 101 - Leadership and Development

MSL 201 - Innovative Team Leadership

MSL 301 - Leading Small Organizations

MSL 401 - Military Professionalism and Ethics

**Spring Semester **

MSL 102 - Foundations of the US Army

MSL 202 - Leadership and Problem Solving

MSL 302 - Advanced Leadership

All Semesters

PED 200 - Selected Topics \- Physical Fitness Course

#### **Air Force ROTC **

The goal of the Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps is to commission
second lieutenants into the U.S. Air Force and U.S. Space Force. Students
completing the Air Force ROTC program will serve as commissioned officers on
active duty for a minimum of four years after graduation. Students learn to
lead, critically and creatively think, and effectively communicate throughout
their time in the program.

Those undergraduate students not on an AFROTC scholarship may enroll in the
AFROTC program as a freshman and sophomore without incurring a military
service obligation. Enrollment in the AFROTC program is available to select
graduate students who will have six to eight more semesters remaining at the
time of the next fall registration.

The undergraduate students who earn an AFROTC scholarship receive tuition
benefits, a $900 per year textbook allowance, and a monthly stipend of
$300-$500 during the academic year. Syracuse University will also provide a
full room and board grant to those AFROTC scholarship recipients.

Students in the AFROTC program enroll in an Aerospace Studies (ASC) course
each semester. Students take ASC 205 (fall)and ASC 206 (spring) during the
first year and ASC 295 / O&M 295 (fall) and ASC 296 / O&M 296 (spring) during
the second year. These courses comprise the General Military Course curriculum
and meet for an hour each week. During their junior year, students enroll in
ASC 305 /O&M 405 (fall) and ASC 306 /O&M 406 (spring) and enroll in ASC 405
(fall) and ASC 406 (spring) as a senior. These courses comprise the
Professional Officer Course curriculum and meet two times per week for total
of three hours a week.

Air Force and Space Force officers and noncommissioned officers teach the
required Aerospace Studies academic courses. These active-duty personnel are
sponsored associates of Syracuse University and hold the academic title of
Professor or Assistant Professor for the duration of their assignment.

Aside from attending academic classes, cadets attend a two-hour Leadership
Laboratory each week. Leadership Laboratory provides instruction in Air Force
customs and courtesies, drill and ceremonies, expeditionary skills, and
solving group leadership problems. Instruction is conducted by the cadet corps
with a progression of experiences designed to further develop leadership
potential. Cadets also build camaraderie through physical training sessions
several times per week.

Cadets compete to attend Field Training at Maxwell Air Force Base in
Montgomery, Alabama during the summer between their sophomore and junior
years. The training is several weeks long and is a required activity to
progress in the AFROTC program. Field Training provides each cadet with
leadership training, familiarity with group dynamics, physical fitness
training, and a chance to experience life in an active Air Force environment.

Cadets can be competitively selected to participate in Professional
Development Training programs around the country throughout the calendar year
as a unique opportunity to further develop and hone their leadership skills.

#### Aerospace Studies General Military Course Classes

Freshman

ASC 101 and ASC 102 - Leadership Lab

ASC 205 and ASC 206 - Introduction to the Department of the Air Force Heritage
and Values

Sophomores

ASC 201 and ASC 202 - Leadership Lab  
ASC 295 or O&M 295 - Team & Leadership Fundamentals and  
ASC 296 or O&M 296 - Team & Leadership Fundamentals

#### Aerospace Studies Professional Officer Course Classes

Juniors

ASC 301 and ASC 302 - Leadership Lab  
ASC 305 or O&M 405 - Leading People and Effective Communication and  
ASC 306 or O&M 406 - Leading People and Effective Communication

Seniors

ASC 401 and ASC 402 - Leadership Lab

ASC 405 and

ASC 406 - National Security, Leadership Responsibilities, and Commissioning
Preparation

Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps  
Professor of Aerospace Studies  
101 Waverly Avenue  
Suite 214  
Syracuse, NY 13244

315-443-2461  
https://afrotc.syr.edu

## Student Success Initiative (SSUI)

Kal Srinivas, Director for Retention and Student Success

Retention and Student Success

Academic Affairs

ShawnMarie Parry, Assistant Director for Retention and Student Success

Retention and Student Success

Academic Affairs

studentsuccess.syr.edu

Supporting undergraduate student success and degree completion, Student
Success Initiative (SSUI) partners with Syracuse University's schools and
colleges, to provide the opportunity to get back on track academically.
Highlights include strategies for academic success, earning 6-9 credits toward
graduation and building campus connections.

The SSUI program is committed to the retention of students. To qualify for the
SSUI program, students must meet one or more of the outlined eligibility
criteria. For more information about SSUI, call 315-443-1031, email
ssui@syr.edu or visit https://studentsuccess.syr.edu/graduation-
initiatives/student-success-initiative/.

## SummerStart

Kal Srinivas, Director for Retention and Student Success

Retention and Student Success

Academic Affairs

ShawnMarie Parry, Assistant Director for Retention and Student Success

Retention and Student Success

Academic Affairs

studentsuccess.syr.edu

Syracuse University SummerStart is a six-week residential, credit-bearing
program that coincides with the six weeks second session. This program is
designed to help first-year students make a successful transition to campus
life, get ahead for the fall semester and set a strong foundation for their
success here on campus and beyond. Students participate in a wide range of
academic and social activities. Students become familiar with the faculty and
staff and learn about all the campus resources available to them.

### Summer Programs

**Summer Sessions**

  * MAYmester - an intensive, two-week session
  * Six Week First - six weeks (mid-May to late June)
  * Six Week Second - six weeks (early July to mid-August)
  * Eight Week First - eight weeks (early May to early July)
  * Eight Week Second- eight weeks (early July to Mid-August)
  * Combined Session - 12-week session (mid-May to mid-August)

Flex Format Session

  * Courses that do not coincide with the designated terms associated with the University's published official terms.

Attending summer sessions enables students to take courses they could not
enroll in during other semesters. Additionally, students visiting from other
colleges can, with permission from their home school, take courses at Syracuse
University during the summer and transfer their credits to their own
university.

The Summer Course Schedule is available at the beginning of March. Students
may also search for classes in MySlice.

## Syracuse Abroad

Syracuse Abroad  
106 Walnut Place  
Erika Wilkens Assistant Provost & Executive Director for Syracuse Abroad  
1-800-235-3472, http://suabroad.syr.edu

Did you know that about half of all Syracuse University students study abroad?
Consistently ranked as one of the nation's highest quality programs, Syracuse
Abroad offers a variety of options and signature features:

  * Year-long, semester, summer, and short-term programs;
  * Language at any level (beginner to advanced);
  * Immersive homestay experiences;
  * Assured guidance from staff and faculty abroad;
  * Once-in-a-lifetime internships, field experiences, and credit-bearing Signature Seminars;
  * Courses award Syracuse University credit; and
  * Financial aid travels with you. Study Abroad grants & other scholarships are available.

Syracuse Abroad maintains centers in Santiago, Chile; London, United Kingdom;
Strasbourg, France, Florence, Italy; Madrid, Spain; and a special fall
semester program in Central Europe.

Our World Partner programs provide semester-long opportunities in many
additional locations, including Australia, Brazil, China, the Czech Republic,
Denmark, Germany, India, Ireland, Israel, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Morocco, New
Zealand, Scotland, South Africa, South Korea, Sweden and more. Our Summer and
short-term programs allow students to study abroad during academic breaks and
pick from over 35 different programs around the world.  
  
  

* * *

![Print this page.](img/print.gif)Print this Page

Facebook this Page (opens a new window)

Tweet this Page (opens a new window)  
  
|  Global Search Catalog Search  
Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Schools and Colleges
Academic Rules Entire Catalog  
Search Keyword Field  
  
Whole Word/Phrase  
Advanced Search  
  
---  
  
* * *  
  
Catalog Navigation |  Catalog Home

* * *

General Information

* * *

Academic Rules

* * *

Undergraduate University Requirements Syracuse University's Shared
Competencies

* * *

Academic Offerings Other Programs Courses

* * *

School of Architecture College of Arts and Sciences School of Education
College of Engineering and Computer Science David B. Falk College of Sport and
Human Dynamics School of Information Studies Martin J. Whitman School of
Management Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs S.I. Newhouse
School of Public Communications College of Professional Studies College of
Visual and Performing Arts SUNY-ESF (Partner Institution)

* * *

Archived Catalogs  
---  
  
* * *  
  
All catalogs (C) 2024 Syracuse University. Powered by Modern Campus Catalog™. | 

