Skip to Content

#

|

##  Course Catalog

Office of the Registrar, 106 Steele Hall Syracuse, NY 13244 | (315) 443-2422

  * ﻿ Like Us on Facebook
  * ﻿ Follow Us on Twitter

  * Accessibility
  * Accreditation
  * Emergencies
  * Privacy

  
---  
2023-2024 Graduate Course Catalog Syracuse University |   
|  |  2023-2024 Graduate Course Catalog |  |  Select a Catalog 2024-2025 Undergraduate Course Catalog 2024-2025 Graduate Course Catalog 2023-2024 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2023-2024 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2022-2023 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2022-2023 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2014-2015 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2014-2015 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] |   
---|---  
|  Sep 19, 2024  |   
|  |  **HELP** 2023-2024 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]  

#  Other Programs

![Print this page.](img/print.gif)Print this Page Facebook this Page (opens a
new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window)  
---  
  
* * *  
  
|

  * English Language Institute
  * Mary Ann Shaw Center for Public & Community Service (Shaw Center)

|

  * Defense Comptrollership Program
  * Summer Programs

  
---|---  
  
* * *

## English Language Institute

David Lind, Director  
700 University Avenue, Suite 207

English Language Institute (ELI) courses are designed for international
students and professionals who are interested in short-term or long-term study
to improve their English skills. This full-time intensive program is offered
through College of Professional Studies. Five levels of Academic English
courses are offered. Many of the students have been conditionally admitted to
Syracuse University and need to increase their English proficiency before
enrolling in a degree program. Completion of the level 4 (high intermediate)
course will waive the university's TOEFL requirement for most undergraduate
and some graduate programs.

Courses of varying length can be designed for individuals or groups with
specific needs and disciplines (e.g., architecture, business, engineering,
etc.). The English for Lawyers program offered every summer is an example of
this type of specialization where students can prepare before starting in an
LL.M. (Master of Laws) program at a U.S. university.

Highly qualified instructors, a great deal of personal attention, and
intensive exposure to English language instruction enable students to make the
necessary progress. Enrollment is limited and admission is by application
only. For more information about the ELI, call 315-443-8571, email
elimail@syr.edu, or visit the website at eli.syr.edu.

## Mary Ann Shaw Center for Public & Community Service (Shaw Center)

Pamela Kirwin Heintz, Associate Vice President & Director  
111 Waverly Avenue, Syracuse, NY 13244, 315-443-3051  
http://shawcenter.syr.edu

The Mary Ann Shaw Center for Public and Community Service (SHAW CENTER)
enhances student learning and success by supporting the high impact practice
of academic engagement in which students apply knowledge, skills and values in
diverse community settings that address global issues and complex social
problems.

Since opening in 1994, the SHAW CENTER has consulted with faculty, provided
orientations, identified and mitigated risk/liability issues, and supported
monitoring and evaluation. The center provides organizational information
about placements in nonprofit and/or public organizations for those seeking
community based service learning/research opportunities; helps create and
facilitate campus-community partnerships; and supports ongoing academic
programs, projects, and courses that foster community based service
learning/research on the local, national and global levels.

Additionally, the SHAW CENTER offers a variety of curricular and co-curricular
service opportunities at nonprofit and/or public organizations. Every college
within the University offers community based service learning/research
opportunities for students.

**The Program**

Students participate in the community based service components of their
courses by completing a predetermined number of service hours at a community
site, engaging in semester-long projects or community based research. Under
the direction of the course professor, teaching assistants, academic managers,
and SHAW CENTER professional staff, students can keep journals, write papers,
do action based research, and present projects and reports to reflect on and
process their community service experiences. The course professor assumes
grading responsibility. Academic credit for the community based learning
experience is awarded by the professor through credit for the course.

**Courses**

Students are invited to visit the SHAW CENTER office or web site at
http://shawcenter.syr.edu/ to learn more about experiential learning in the
community academic options. Students are encouraged to discuss course options
that interest them with the appropriate faculty advisor before registering.
Students can, with the approval of the professor, request individual
placements within courses to enhance assignments or course goals. The SHAW
CENTER will work to help the student and professor develop and implement an
appropriate placement, as well as assist with the reflection and processing of
the experience, when appropriate.

## Defense Comptrollership Program

* * *

### Contact

Irma P. Finocchiaro, Director, Defense Programs, 420 Whitman School of
Management, 315-443-2898, ifinocch@syr.edu

### Program Description

The Defense Comptrollership Program (DCP) is a unique cooperative endeavor
between the Department of the Army and Syracuse University. Established in
1952 by the Whitman School of Management and joined by the Maxwell School of
Citizenship and Public Affairs in 2002, DCP was designed to provide an
academic foundation of both business and government theory. It is a dual
degree Master of Business Administration (MBA) with a Concentration in
Business Analytics/Executive Master of Public Administration (Executive MPA)
offered to military and civilians. As the practice of these concepts and
theories will be utilized in the dynamic environment of national defense,
emphasis is placed upon the implications for comptrollership. The DCP
participants pursue the traditional MBA and Executive MPA curriculum along
with the other graduate students during the fall and spring semesters. The
transition to the practice of Defense Comptrollership is delivered to the DCP
class during spring session. As part of the course, students are required to
pass three Certified Defense Financial Manager examinations. Upon successful
completion of the 14-month tailored curriculum, graduates are assigned to
resource management positions throughout the Department of Defense.

### Accreditation

The Whitman School has been accredited by the Association to Advance
Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB International) since 1920.

## Degree Requirements

* * *

This is a 60 credit dual degree that leads to a Master in Business
Administration degree and an Executive Masters in Public Administration
degree.

### First Quarter-Summer (15 credits)

* * *

  * MBC 601 - Economic Foundations of Business 1.5 credit(s)
  * MBC 602 - Economics for International Business 1.5 credit(s)
  * MBC 636 - Marketing Management  3 credit(s)
  * MBC 638 - Data Analysis and Decision Making 3 credit(s)
  * PAI 730 - Problems in Public Administration \- Topic: Dispute Resolution for Public Managers 3 credit(s)
  * SCM 651 - Business Analytics 3 credit(s)

### Second Quarter-Fall (15 credits)

* * *

  * PAI 897 - Fundamentals of Policy Analysis 3 credit(s)
  * MBC 606 - Information Technology for Decision Support 1.5 credit(s)
  * MBC 610 - Opportunity Recognition and Ideation 1.5 credit(s)
  * MBC 631 - Financial Accounting 3 credit(s)
  * ACC 652 - Accounting Analytics 3 credit(s)
  * PAI 895 - Managerial Leadership 3 credit(s) **Mid-Career Seminar
  * Other PAI Elective 3 credit(s)

### Third Quarter-Winter and Spring (18 credits)

* * *

  * PAI 685 - Follow the Money: Key Issues in Illicit Finance 3 credit(s) **Winter Intercession
  * BUA 600 - Selected Topics \- Topic: Seminar in Comptrollership and CDFM 1.5 credit(s)
  * MBC 609 - Accounting for Managerial Decisions 1.5 credit(s)
  * MBC 633 - Managerial Finance 3 credit(s)
  * MBC 635 - Operations and Supply Chain Management 3 credit(s)
  * MBC 645 - Strategic Management 3 credit(s)
  * PAI 895 - Managerial Leadership 3 credit(s) **Mid-Career Seminar
  * Other PAI Elective 3 credit(s)

### Fourth Quarter-Summer (12 credits)

* * *

  * FIN 654 - Financial Analytics 3 credit(s)
  * ACC 760 - Principles of Fraud Examination 3 credit(s)
  * MBC 647 - Global Entrepreneurial Management 3 credit(s)
  * PAI 996 - Master's Project Course 3 credit(s)

## Additional Information

* * *

Passing the CDFM examinations is required.

## Satisfactory Progress

* * *

Students are required to maintain a GPA of 3.0 or higher to meet degree
requirements.

## Summer Programs

**Summer Sessions**

  * MAYmester - an intensive, two-week session
  * Six Week First - six weeks (mid-May to late June)
  * Six Week Second - six weeks (early July to mid-August)
  * Eight Week First - eight weeks (early May to early July)
  * Eight Week Second- eight weeks (early July to Mid-August)
  * Combined Session - 12-week session (mid-May to mid-August)

Flex Format Session

  * Courses that do not coincide with the designated terms associated with the University's published official terms.

Attending summer sessions enables students to take courses they could not
enroll in during other semesters. Additionally, students visiting from other
colleges can, with permission from their home school, take courses at Syracuse
University during the summer and transfer their credits to their own
university.

The Summer Course Schedule is available at the beginning of March. Students
may also search for classes in MySlice.  
  
  

* * *

![Print this page.](img/print.gif)Print this Page

Facebook this Page (opens a new window)

Tweet this Page (opens a new window)  
  
|  Global Search Catalog Search  
Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Schools and Colleges
Academic Rules Entire Catalog  
Search Keyword Field  
  
Whole Word/Phrase  
Advanced Search  
  
---  
  
* * *  
  
Catalog Navigation |  Catalog Home

* * *

General Information

* * *

Academic Rules

* * *

Academic Offerings Other Programs Courses

* * *

School of Architecture College of Arts and Sciences School of Education
College of Engineering and Computer Science David B. Falk College of Sport and
Human Dynamics School of Information Studies College of Law Martin J. Whitman
School of Management Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs S.I.
Newhouse School of Public Communications College of Professional Studies
College of Visual and Performing Arts SUNY-ESF (Partner Institution)

* * *

Archived Catalogs  
---  
  
* * *  
  
All catalogs (C) 2024 Syracuse University. Powered by Modern Campus Catalog™. | 

