Skip to Content

#

|

##  Course Catalog

Office of the Registrar, 106 Steele Hall Syracuse, NY 13244 | (315) 443-2422

  * ﻿ Like Us on Facebook
  * ﻿ Follow Us on Twitter

  * Accessibility
  * Accreditation
  * Emergencies
  * Privacy

  
---  
2023-2024 Undergraduate Course Catalog Syracuse University |   
|  |  2023-2024 Undergraduate Course Catalog |  |  Select a Catalog 2024-2025 Undergraduate Course Catalog 2024-2025 Graduate Course Catalog 2023-2024 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2023-2024 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2022-2023 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2022-2023 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2014-2015 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2014-2015 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] |   
---|---  
|  Sep 19, 2024  |   
|  |  **HELP** 2023-2024 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]  

#  School of Education

![Print this page.](img/print.gif)Print this Page Facebook this Page (opens a
new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window)  
---  
  
* * *  
  
  * Academic Offerings
  * Faculty
  * Courses
  * About the School
  * Educational Mission
  * Undergraduate Education
  * Facilities

|

  * Accreditation
  * Student Services
  * Career Services & Certification Office
  * Study Abroad
  * Undergraduate Admissions

  
---|---  
  
![](/mime/media/35/4612/Dean%20Kelly%20Chandler-Olcott.jpg)

Kelly Chandler-Olcott

Dean  
230 Huntington Hall  
soe.syr.edu

### About the School

There are no careers more critical to the human condition and sustainability
than teaching, educational policy and the foundations of education, research
in counseling, and instructional technology. Our undergraduate and graduate
students, as well as our faculty come from throughout the U.S. and from around
the world.

The School of Education aspires to increased distinction for its innovative
pedagogies, inclusive practices, and synergistic partnerships. The SOE seeks
to deepen the significance of its work in learning and human development,
research and scholarship, equity, and professional leadership for education
and human performance contexts.

The School of Education participates in students' knowledge and skill
development through the Shared Competencies, Syracuse University's
institutional learning goals that highlight the knowledge and skills students
can expect to gain through their major courses, liberal arts requirements and
co-curricular activities.

#### Accreditation

Professional accreditation of preparatory education programs is the bedrock
upon which all professions (e.g., architecture, engineering, medicine, and
law) have built their reputations. It assures that those entering the
respective field have been suitably prepared to practice through assimilation
of a body of knowledge and pre-service practice in the profession.
Accreditation of schools of education indicates that the school underwent
rigorous external review by professionals, that performance of a teacher
candidate in the program has been thoroughly assessed before they are
recommended for licensure, and that programs meet standards set by the
teaching profession at large.

Regional accreditation organizations are now following this same rigorous
approach to assessments and are asking faculty from education to be leaders at
their institutions. This paradigm shift is creating a culture on college
campuses towards innovation and quality improvements.

Syracuse University is currently accredited for teacher preparation and other
professional school personnel programs by the **Association for Advancing
Quality in Educator Preparation (AAQEP)** for the next seven years, starting
in 2021. Teacher preparation and other professional school personnel programs
are administered through five colleges/schools at Syracuse University: College
of Arts and Sciences , School of Education, College of Visual and Performing
Arts , David B. Falk College of Sport and Human Dynamics , and School of
Information Studies . Pursuant to Section 52.21 of the New York Regulations of
the Commissioner of Education, teacher preparation and other professional
school personnel programs offered by Syracuse University are considered to be
continuously accredited for purposes of meeting the New York State requirement
that all such programs maintain continuous accreditation.

From the Expectations Framework for programs accredited by the AAQEP:

_AAQEP is an accreditation organization for educator preparation programs.
AAQEP was founded by educators in 2017 to promote the preparation of effective
educators in innovative, outcome-focused programs that engage education 's
toughest challenges directly and in context. AAQEP's comprehensive standards
for educator preparation specify aspects of completer performance and program
practice that identify effective programs and that qualify those programs for
AAQEP accreditation._

Please refer to the CAEP website for additional information on accreditation:
http://caepnet.org/

### Educational Mission

The mission of the Syracuse University School of Education is to prepare
thoughtful and socially just leaders who bridge scholarship and practice.
Through collaborative partnerships and multifaceted inclusive approaches, we
enhance student learning and success, physical activity and health, and mental
health and wellbeing across communities. We enact our mission through the
following nine core commitments.

  * To graduate highly skilled and knowledgeable practitioners, teachers, administrators, counselors, scholars, and other professionals who are leaders in their respective fields and are committed to inclusion in policy and practice
  * To operate from a social justice philosophy that includes advocating for the rights of historically marginalized populations and for educational, health, and broader forms of equity
  * To pursue rigorous scholarship, including evolving forms of intellectual and creative work that has an impact in local and global contexts
  * To promote wellness across communities including multiple dimensions of physical health and activity, and socio-emotional wellbeing
  * To prepare leaders in multiple fields including through intensive field experiences informed by theory, scholarly evidence, exemplary practices, and reciprocal university-community relations
  * To stimulate student success through transformative pedagogy, student-centered learning, and effective integration of technology-based and other resources
  * To recognize that diversity and academic excellence are inseparable. Diversity is embraced in its varied dimensions including but not limited to a diverse community of faculty, students, and staff; multiculturalism; and work in diverse schools and social environments.
  * To foster interdisciplinary scholarship and collaborative partnerships, and to promote a climate in the School of Education and the broader university community characterized by mutual respect and democratic and sustainable practices
  * To nurture a vibrant, close-knit community of scholars and students who enrich as well as draw from the breadth of resources and opportunities of a research university.

  
---  
  
### Undergraduate Education

#### Undergraduate Degree Requirements

All undergraduate programs offered by the School of Education typically
require the completion of 120 to 138 credits. Specific program requirements
vary, as do the total number of credits.

The School of Education offers 12 majors and 5 minors. Some of our School of
Education programs are single enrollment programs, which means that students
complete their major entirely in the School of Education. Other programs are
dual enrollment programs, meaning that students complete one major through
requirements in the School of Education and another Syracuse University school
or college. Our dual enrollment programs include those with the David B. Falk
College of Sport and Human Dynamics; College of Arts and Sciences; and College
of Visual and Performing Arts. Students in dual programs will have advisors in
both schools/colleges.

Field experiences, usually off campus, are required throughout most programs,
with placement sites assigned by course instructors or through the field
placement office. The School of Education provides free transportation for
field experiences, but students are encouraged to provide their own
transportation for student-teaching assignments during their senior year.

At several points during teacher preparation programs, reviews of students'
progress are made to determine continued eligibility for each program. These
review points vary, but in all cases include the time just prior to student
teaching. See individual program descriptions for further information.

#### Bachelor Degree Requirements

A Bachelor's degree in the School of Education will require all students to
complete two university-wide required courses: First-year Seminar (FYS 101 )
and a 3-credit IDEA course before graduating. The IDEA course can be selected
from an approved list . The IDEA course can be fulfilled either as a liberal
arts, departmental course, or elective depending on the course chosen.  
---  
  
#### Community, Collaboration, and Facilities

The School of Education strives to integrate sustained, critical, always-
respectful engagement with the profession and those it serves. It relies upon
creating a community of learners devoted to service. The efforts of our
students and faculty members to create such a community are supported by an
organizational infrastructure of coordinating councils, teacher centers,
professional development schools, subject matter academies, specially-funded
research and development projects, and skilled staff members. All are devoted
to nurturing collaborative partnerships between preservice educators,
University faculty, and practicing professionals in public education, higher
education, and other educational and work environments.

Some of the various opportunities in which undergraduate students can engage
in this on-going process include:

  * EduSIMS
  * InclusiveU
  * Landscape of Urban Education Lecture Series
  * Intergroup Dialogue
  * Spector/Warren Fellowship
  * McNair Scholars

Huntington Hall serves as the home for the School of Education and many
offices and classrooms; as a very interdisciplinary school, additional spaces
can be found throughout the Syracuse University campus, including but not
limited to:

  * Comstock Art Facility - the main building for art education
  * Crouse College - the main building for music education
  * Carnegie Hall - home to math education
  * 111 Waverly Ave., Suite 230 - home to Academic and Student Services

#### The Office of Academic and Student Services

The Office of Academic and Student Services was created to ensure that
students get the most out of their college experience. The staff in the office
provides a thorough and effective system of support for both undergraduate and
graduate students from the admissions process through graduation and beyond.

From academic support to career advice to information about opportunities to
study abroad, the professionals in Academic and Student Services have the
experience and knowledge to answer questions, provide advisement, and make
referrals as necessary.

#### Undergraduate Advising

Students are assigned to an advisor in the Office of Academic and Student
Services at the onset of their studies. Located at 111 Waverly Avenue, Suite
230, the Office of Academic and Student Services has the resources to help
students better understand academic requirements, negotiate academic policies
and processes, and get the most out of their college experience.

The mission of Academic and Student Services is to help students succeed by
providing information, fostering personal development and responsibility, and
offering supportive services. Students have an open invitation to stop by with
questions or concerns regarding academic programs, advising, career issues,
and certification. If an answer is not provided here, our staff is dedicated
to helping students find what they need.

#### Career Services and Certification Office

The School of Education Career Services center offers a variety of services to
help students with their job search in the education field. These services
include opening a credential file, resume and cover letter assistance, on-
campus employer info sessions and fairs, and New York State Teacher
Certification recommendation. All of our teacher-prep programs are integrated
with New York State Teacher Certification requirements. For more information
about our Career Services Office, visit:
http://soe.syr.edu/current/student_services/career_services.aspx.

For more information about certification, visit:
http://soe.syr.edu/current/student_services/Certification.aspx.

#### Study Abroad

The School of Education supports and encourages study abroad for undergraduate
students enrolled in any of our programs. The faculty and program advisors
work very closely with students on appropriate course sequencing to facilitate
this. School of Education students can apply for study abroad funding through
the School of Education and through the Syracuse abroad office.

School of Education students have the opportunity to study abroad for a summer
or semester through the nine Syracuse Abroad centers, as well as multiple
short-term programs with School of Education faculty. For more information,
visit: http://soe.syr.edu/current/study_abroad/default.aspx

### Undergraduate Admissions Information

#### External Admissions

(Students applying to Syracuse University from high school or another college
or university.)

The School of Education appreciates your interest and hopes you will continue
to learn more about the School by exploring the website
(http://www.soe.syr.edu), visiting campus, and meeting with a representative
or faculty member.

Candidates for undergraduate admission to Syracuse University apply to a
specific major within one of our schools or colleges. To learn more about the
programs available in the School of Education, contact Tim Findlay,
Undergraduate Admissions Recruiter at (315) 443-4269 or twfindla@syr.edu.

For information about the application, the application process, or enrollment
dates and deadlines, contact the Office of Admissions at (315) 443-3611 or
orange@syr.edu. To apply, please visit https://www.syracuse.edu/admissions/

#### Internal Admissions (Intra-University Transfer)

(Students who are already attending Syracuse University and want to transfer
to the School of Education.)

Syracuse University students interested in an intra-university transfer (IUT)
to the School of Education must have a 3.0 cumulative grade point average
(GPA) or higher for all School of Education single and dual enrollment
programs, except Selected Studies in Education, which requires a 2.8
cumulative GPA.

*Students who fall below the minimum GPA requirement are still encouraged to apply as an IUT into the School of Education. Applications will be reviewed and considered on an individual basis.

Students considering transfer into one of our programs in education should
contact a School of Education advisor to discuss transferring into the School
of Education by calling (315) 443-9319, emailing soeadvising@syr.edu, or
visiting the office at 111 Waverly Ave., Suite 230. Students may want to take
one of the following courses, which may be taken by non-education students
with advisement while they make the decision to transfer or while the intra-
university transfer (IUT) application is being processed.

Inclusive Elementary and Special Education Teacher Preparation Program

  * EDU 203 \- Introduction to Inclusive Schooling (first year)
  * SPE 311 \- Perspectives on Disabilities
  * EDU 303 \- Children's Learning in ENL Inclusive Classrooms

Selected Studies in Education

  * EDU 221 \- Education for Transformation
  * EDU 321 \- International Education for Transformation
  * EDU 310 \- The American School

For dual programs with the School of Education and the College of Arts and
Sciences or the College of Visual and Performing Arts, consider the following:

  * EDU 304 - Study of Teaching
  * EDU 310 - The American School

#### Undergraduate Financial Aid

The Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships is available to address your
questions, offer options for payment, assist in filing student loan and grant
applications, and suggest financial planning options. For additional
information, visit their web site at http://financialaid.syr.edu, call (315)
443-1513 or send e-mail to finmail@syr.edu.

For more information for School of Education-specific opportunities for
undergraduate students, please visit the website at
http://soe.syr.edu/future/financial_aid/

### Programs

#### Single Enrollment in the School of Education

Teacher Preparation Programs:

  * Inclusive Elementary and Special Education, BS (leads to initial certification in childhood education grades 1-6 and students with disabilities grades 1-6)
  * Health and Physical Education, BS (NOT CURRENTLY ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS) (leads to initial certification in health education and physical education, all grades)
  * Physical Education, BS (NOT ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS) (leads to initial certification in physical education, all grades)

Non-Teacher Preparation Programs (no teacher certification)

  * Selected Studies in Education, BS

#### Dual Enrollment in the School of Education and David B. Falk College of
Sport and Human Dynamics

Our dual program with the David B. Falk College of Sport and Human Dynamics
leads to recommendation for New York State initial certification in early
childhood (birth-grade 2) and students with disabilities (birth-grade 2).

  * Inclusive Early Childhood Special Education, BS (NOT ADMITTING STUDENTS) 

#### Dual Enrollment in the School of Education and College of Arts and
Sciences

Our dual programs with the College of Arts and Sciences lead to recommendation
for New York State initial certification within a specific content area for
teaching grades 7-12. For mathematics education and science education, both a
BA and BS degree option is available.

  * English Education (Dual), BA
  * Mathematics Education (Dual) BA
  * Mathematics Education (Dual), BS
  * Science Education-Biology (Dual), BA
  * Science Education-Biology (Dual), BS
  * Science Education-Chemistry (Dual), BA
  * Science Education-Chemistry (Dual), BS
  * Science Education-Earth Science (Dual), BA
  * Science Education-Earth Science (Dual), BS
  * Science Education-Physics (Dual), BA
  * Science Education-Physics (Dual), BS
  * Social Studies Education (Dual), BA
  * Spanish Education (Dual), BA (Not admitting students as of Fall 2023)

#### Teacher Preparation Program - Dual Enrollment in the School of Education
and College of Visual and Performing Arts

Our dual program with the College of Visual and Performing Arts leads to
recommendation for New York State initial certification within a specific
content area for teaching all grades.

  * Arts Education, BFA (Not Currently Admitting Students)
  * Music Education, BMus

#### Programs

**Major**

  * • Arts Education, BFA (Not Currently Admitting Students)
  * • English Education (Dual), BA
  * • Health and Physical Education, BS (NOT CURRENTLY ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS)
  * • Inclusive Early Childhood Special Education, BS (NOT ADMITTING STUDENTS) 
  * • Inclusive Elementary and Special Education, BS
  * • Mathematics Education (Dual) BA
  * • Mathematics Education (Dual), BS
  * • Music Education, BMus
  * • Physical Education, BS (NOT ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS)
  * • Science Education-Biology 7-12 (Dual), BA
  * • Science Education-Biology 7-12 (Dual), BS
  * • Science Education-Chemistry (Dual), BA
  * • Science Education-Chemistry (Dual), BS
  * • Science Education-Earth Science (Dual), BA
  * • Science Education-Earth Science (Dual), BS
  * • Science Education-Physics (Dual), BA
  * • Science Education-Physics (Dual), BS
  * • Selected Studies in Education, BS
  * • Social Studies Education (Dual), BA
  * • Spanish Education (Dual), BA (Not admitting students as of Fall 2023)

**Minor**

  * • Atrocity Studies and the Practices of Social Justice Minor
  * • Dance Appreciation and Practice Minor
  * • Disability Studies Minor
  * • Education Studies Minor
  * • Physical Education (Coaching) Minor

  

* * *

![Print this page.](img/print.gif)Print this Page

Facebook this Page (opens a new window)

Tweet this Page (opens a new window)  
  
|  Global Search Catalog Search  
Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Schools and Colleges
Academic Rules Entire Catalog  
Search Keyword Field  
  
Whole Word/Phrase  
Advanced Search  
  
---  
  
* * *  
  
Catalog Navigation |  Catalog Home

* * *

General Information

* * *

Academic Rules

* * *

Undergraduate University Requirements Syracuse University's Shared
Competencies

* * *

Academic Offerings Other Programs Courses

* * *

School of Architecture College of Arts and Sciences School of Education
College of Engineering and Computer Science David B. Falk College of Sport and
Human Dynamics School of Information Studies Martin J. Whitman School of
Management Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs S.I. Newhouse
School of Public Communications College of Professional Studies College of
Visual and Performing Arts SUNY-ESF (Partner Institution)

* * *

Archived Catalogs  
---  
  
* * *  
  
All catalogs (C) 2024 Syracuse University. Powered by Modern Campus Catalog™. | 

