Skip to Content

#

|

##  Course Catalog

Office of the Registrar, 106 Steele Hall Syracuse, NY 13244 | (315) 443-2422

  * ﻿ Like Us on Facebook
  * ﻿ Follow Us on Twitter

  * Accessibility
  * Accreditation
  * Emergencies
  * Privacy

  
---  
2023-2024 Undergraduate Course Catalog Syracuse University |   
|  |  2023-2024 Undergraduate Course Catalog |  |  Select a Catalog 2024-2025 Undergraduate Course Catalog 2024-2025 Graduate Course Catalog 2023-2024 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2023-2024 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2022-2023 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2022-2023 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2014-2015 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2014-2015 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] |   
---|---  
|  Sep 19, 2024  |   
|  |  **HELP** 2023-2024 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]  

#  David B. Falk College of Sport and Human Dynamics

![Print this page.](img/print.gif)Print this Page Facebook this Page (opens a
new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window)  
---  
  
* * *  
  
  * Programs
  * Faculty
  * Courses
  * Academic Departments

|

  * About the College
  * Undergraduate Program Overview

  
---|---  
  
![](/mime/media/35/5811/Dean%20Jordan.jpg)

Jeremy S. Jordan, Dean  
440 White Hall  
315-443-2027

### About the College

Welcome to the David B. Falk College of Sport and Human Dynamics. Our legacy
spans a century, weaving the values of human connection, civic service, and
social justice into our academic offerings. Falk College brings together
Syracuse University's departments of Exercise Science, Human Development and
Family Science, Marriage and Family Therapy, Nutrition and Food Studies,
Public Health, Social Work, and Sport Management in an environment of cross-
disciplinary teaching, research, practice, and service. Students benefit
greatly from a powerful alumni network. Through classroom learning and hands-
on experience in our customized learning laboratories and through community
field opportunities, our students learn by example-and by doing-to become
professionals who will provide services that enhance the emotional and
physical well-being of individuals, families, and communities.

The Falk College leadership team includes:

Chandice Haste-Jackson, Associate Dean, Student Services  
Kay Bruening, Associate Dean, Academic Affairs

Katherine McDonald, Associate Dean, Research

The Falk College Dean's Office can be reached at 315-443-2027 for more
information about academic programs, services, and all other activities
related to the college.

#### Accreditation

  * Falk College offers accredited programs in nutrition science and dietetics at the undergraduate level and nutrition science at the graduate level accredited by the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics' Accreditation Council for Education in Nutrition and Dietetics (ACEND).
  * The M.A. and Ph.D. programs in marriage and family therapy are accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Marriage and Family Therapy Education (COAMFTE).
  * All social work programs are fully accredited through the Council on Social Work Education (CSWE).
  * Falk College's bachelor's degree in public health and master of public health degree are accredited by the Council on Education for Public Health (CEPH).

#### Mission and Goals

Falk College is committed to improving the health and well-being of
individuals of all ages, their families, and their communities through
scholarship, practice, civic engagement, advocacy, and entrepreneurial
leadership within the framework of principles of social justice. We foster
student growth by engaging diverse perspectives around our shared values. This
is an exciting time at Falk College as our traditional academic programs that
focus on social responsibility and justice are merging with new and evolving
majors reflective of educating global citizens whose leadership changes the
people and places where they live and work.

### Undergraduate Program Overview

Jeremy S. Jordan, Dean

The David B. Falk College of Sport and Human Dynamics is one of Syracuse
University's most service-oriented colleges; where cross-professional
collaboration is the cornerstone of teaching, research, and practice. Falk
College participates in students' knowledge and skill development through the
Shared Competencies, Syracuse University's institutional learning goals that
highlight the knowledge and skills students can expect to gain through their
major courses, liberal arts requirements, and co-curricular activities. Like
professionals in the field, students and faculty in the college work and learn
together across disciplinary lines to find new, more effective approaches to
important health and social issues. Falk College offers bachelor's degree
programs in health and exercise science, human development and family science,
food studies, nutrition science and dietetics, public health, social work,
sport analytics, sport management, and esports.

Faculty members include current and former practitioners who provide a real-
world perspective on the professional field. The small college atmosphere
allows for personalized attention from the faculty and staff who guide
students through the educational experience. In consultation with faculty and
staff advisors, students choose a major program of study and select coursework
that provides necessary professional preparation enhanced by a solid liberal
arts education.

The integration of theory and practice lies at the heart of the college's
mission. Through the college's extensive internship program, students gain
valuable hands-on experience that complements their classroom learning and
better prepares them for their careers. Our undergraduate academic programs in
Falk College are supported by professionally trained internship and field
placement coordinators who work one-on-one with every student to create an
experiential learning opportunity that supports their future career goals. In
addition, the Falk College Career Services office guides students in career
exploration and development through networking events, individualized career
counseling, and internship and job search support.

A dedicated professional Student Services staff offers Falk students one-on-
one, personalized support to track progress, address needs, and celebrate
achievements. A strengths-based advising and counseling approach helps address
student concerns and challenges.

Students in all Falk College academic programs can conduct research working
with faculty mentors across Syracuse University, an R1 research institution.
The Falk Office of Research Development (FORD) is a dedicated college resource
for Falk faculty and student researchers.

Our undergraduate students are uniquely advantaged by the Falk College
facilities where they learn and study. The Nutrition Assessment, Consultation
and Education (ACE) Center offers a hands-on learning laboratory to prepare
students with traditional and emerging professional competencies critical to
nutrition practice. In addition to the ACE Center, our professional chefs in
our food studies and nutrition facility work side-by-side with students in our
modern food laboratories. The Susan R. Klenk Learning Café and Kitchens
provide a hands-on learning environment to prepare students with traditional
and emerging professional competencies for careers in food, nutrition,
dietetics, and public health. The facility includes an experimental food lab
kitchen, commercial kitchen, baking nook and café. A video camera system
allows faculty and chef instructors to broadcast classes, food demonstrations,
and seminars from Falk College to anywhere on campus and across the country.

Falk College's Milton Conrad Sport Technology Lab doubles as a student
classroom and computer lab that meets the latest programming trends in sport
analytics and event and sport venue operations. Students train to operate live
events using Daktronics equipment identical to what is found at major sport
venues, such as ribbon boards and a scoreboard systems controller.
Undergraduate and graduate programs integrate learning with activities at the
JMA Wireless Dome as Syracuse University is the only institution in the nation
with a sport facility of its size on the main campus.

The Department of Exercise Science houses integrative research laboratories at
the Syracuse University Women's Building. including the Human Performance
Laboratory that explores the impact of exercise on emerging markers of
cardiovascular disease risk. In the Clinical Research Lab, researchers study
cardio-metabolic risk factors, such as insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes,
in obese populations. The Kinesmetrics Laboratory helps researchers understand
the impact of behaviors such as sleep, sedentary behavior, and physical
activity on health. The Hypoxia Lab features a full-scale normobaric hypoxia
chamber for simulated altitude training, investigations of the human
physiological response to low oxygen, and for the staging and testing of
protocols that are used during field research conducted in the Andes and
Himalayas. The Neuromuscular Physiology Lab uses noninvasive brain stimulation
and assessment of motor unit behavior to investigate changes that occur in the
brain and spinal cord that impact skeletal muscle function throughout the
lifespan. In the System Motor Control and Biomechanics Lab, researchers
utilize biomechanics equipment and neuro-stimulation techniques to examine how
the musculoskeletal and nervous systems produce functional movements, as well
as how these systems' functions change due to aging or diseases.

#### General Regulations

For academic rules and regulations that apply to all University students,
please see the Academic Rules section of this catalog. This section also
contains special regulations that apply to all students matriculated in the
college.

#### Combined, Dual, and Double Programs

Approval for combined, dual, and double programs of study must be obtained
from each academic unit involved.

#### PED General Electives

Up to four credits in physical education (PED) courses numbered 100-299 may be
included among the general elective credits counted toward a degree in the
college for singly enrolled students.

#### Fees

Laboratory fees are required in certain courses where specialized equipment
and materials are provided. A technology fee is assessed for all Falk College
majors and minors, and all non-Falk students who take a Falk College course.
Complete breakdown for Falk College Fees may be found in the annual Tuition
and Fees and Related Policies Bulletin.

#### Intra-University Transfer

Qualifying GPA varies, depending on the major. Departments may have additional
criteria. Applicants are required to discuss tentative transfer plans with the
academic chair or director of the proposed program of study. Students who meet
department criteria will be admitted on a space-available basis. Transfer
requests may be held until the end of the semester.

#### Part-Time Study

Students unable to enroll for full-time study may complete the bachelor's
degree on a part-time basis through the College of Professional Studies
(formerly University College). Part-time students register through the College
of Professional Studies and are advised both by advisors in the College of
Professional Studies and by faculty in Falk College.

#### Study Abroad

Falk College, in cooperation with Syracuse Abroad, strongly encourages
students to take advantage of study abroad opportunities. Syracuse Abroad
offers more than 100 programs in 60 countries, including semester, summer, and
short-stay immersion programs. Students may choose from a variety of courses
to fulfill requirements or elective credits for their program of study in the
college. It is essential that students begin planning early for study abroad
and work closely with their academic advisors. For further information,
contact the Office of Student Services in Falk College, 330 Barclay,
315-443-3144, or Syracuse Abroad, 106 Walnut Place, 315-443-3471.

#### Minors

Falk College students are strongly encouraged to complete a minor and should
seek assistance from their academic advisors in choosing a minor that will
enhance their academic programs and add breadth and depth to their college
experience. With careful and early planning, most minors can fit into the
undergraduate curriculum without extra coursework. Descriptions and
requirements for Falk College minors are listed below.

### Exercise Science

#### Programs

**Major**

  * • Health and Exercise Science, BS

**Minor**

  * • Exercise Science Minor

### Human Development and Family Science

#### Programs

**Major**

  * • Human Development and Family Science, BS
  * • Inclusive Early Childhood Special Education, BS (NOT ADMITTING STUDENTS) 

**Minor**

  * • Child and Family Policy Studies Minor
  * • Gerontology Interdisciplinary Minor
  * • Human Development and Family Science Minor
  * • Mindfulness and Contemplative Studies Minor

### Nutrition and Food Studies

#### Programs

**Major**

  * • Food Studies, BS
  * • Nutrition Science, BS
  * • Nutrition, BS

**Minor**

  * • Food Studies Minor
  * • Nutrition Minor
  * • Nutrition Science Minor
  * • Sustainable Food Enterprises Minor (Not Admitting Students)

### Public Health

#### Programs

**Major**

  * • Management & Public Health, BS Dual
  * • Public Health, BS

**Minor**

  * • Addiction Studies Minor
  * • Healthcare Management Minor
  * • Public Health Minor

**Combined Degree**

  * • Public Health, BS/MPH
  * • Public Health, BS/MS (Not currently admitting)

### School of Social Work

#### Programs

**Major**

  * • Social Work, BS

**Minor**

  * • Social Justice Minor

### Sport Management

#### Programs

**Major**

  * • Esports Communications & Management, BS
  * • Management & Sport Management Dual, BS
  * • Sport Analytics, BS
  * • Sport Management, BS

**Minor**

  * • Emerging Sport Enterprise, Minor
  * • Sport Analytics, Minor
  * • Sport Event Management, Minor
  * • Sport Management, Minor
  * • Sport Revenue Management and Operations, Minor (Not Admitting Students)

  

* * *

![Print this page.](img/print.gif)Print this Page

Facebook this Page (opens a new window)

Tweet this Page (opens a new window)  
  
|  Global Search Catalog Search  
Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Schools and Colleges
Academic Rules Entire Catalog  
Search Keyword Field  
  
Whole Word/Phrase  
Advanced Search  
  
---  
  
* * *  
  
Catalog Navigation |  Catalog Home

* * *

General Information

* * *

Academic Rules

* * *

Undergraduate University Requirements Syracuse University's Shared
Competencies

* * *

Academic Offerings Other Programs Courses

* * *

School of Architecture College of Arts and Sciences School of Education
College of Engineering and Computer Science David B. Falk College of Sport and
Human Dynamics School of Information Studies Martin J. Whitman School of
Management Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs S.I. Newhouse
School of Public Communications College of Professional Studies College of
Visual and Performing Arts SUNY-ESF (Partner Institution)

* * *

Archived Catalogs  
---  
  
* * *  
  
All catalogs (C) 2024 Syracuse University. Powered by Modern Campus Catalog™. | 

