Skip to Content

#

|

##  Course Catalog

Office of the Registrar, 106 Steele Hall Syracuse, NY 13244 | (315) 443-2422

  * ﻿ Like Us on Facebook
  * ﻿ Follow Us on Twitter

  * Accessibility
  * Accreditation
  * Emergencies
  * Privacy

  
---  
2023-2024 Undergraduate Course Catalog Syracuse University |   
|  |  2023-2024 Undergraduate Course Catalog |  |  Select a Catalog 2024-2025 Undergraduate Course Catalog 2024-2025 Graduate Course Catalog 2023-2024 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2023-2024 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2022-2023 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2022-2023 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2014-2015 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2014-2015 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] |   
---|---  
|  Sep 19, 2024  |   
|  |  **HELP** 2023-2024 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]  

#  General Information

![Print this page.](img/print.gif)Print this Page Facebook this Page (opens a
new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window)  
---  
  
* * *  
  
|

  * About Syracuse University
  * Tuition and Fees
  * Academic Calendar
  * Admissions and Financial Aid
  * Hours of Operation
  * University Facilities
  * Libraries
  * Information Technology Services
  * Health and Wellness
  * Career Services
  * Syracuse University Internship Opportunities

|

  * Interdisciplinary and Specialized Study
  * The Center for Advanced Systems and Engineering (CASE)
  * The Syracuse University Infrastructure Institute (SUII)
  * The Graduate School
  * Syracuse University Graduation Rate
  * Syracuse University Leadership
  * Student Privacy Rights (FERPA)
  * Student Grievance Processes
  * Distance Learning Students - Information
  * Policies for Recipents of the Post 9/11 G.I. Bill (Ch.33) or Veteran Readiness and Employment (Ch. 31) Benefits
  * Nondiscrimination and EEO Policy
  * Campus Safety

  
---|---  
  
* * *

## About Syracuse University

Syracuse University, located in the City of Syracuse in the center of New York
State, is a private coeducational university comprising 13 undergraduate and
graduate schools and colleges. Founded in 1870, the University today has an
enrollment of more than 22,000 undergraduates and graduate students
representing all 50 states, more than 100 countries, and a variety of social
and economic backgrounds.

Syracuse combines the supportive network of a small college with the superior
resources and enhanced research and immersion opportunities needed for
students to achieve their academic and professional goals. Students will learn
from world-class teachers, assist in critical research, collaborate across
disciplines, and engage in the many-faceted intellectual, cultural, and social
activities and events that comprise this vibrant campus community. In and out
of the classroom, students will gain the knowledge, skills, and experience
needed for them to excel in whatever field they choose to pursue.

Syracuse University's picturesque main campus reflects its rich heritage, with
an architectural mix of classic and contemporary academic buildings. The Hall
of Languages and its early hillside companion, Crouse College, are listed in
the National Register of Historic Places. At the heart of the campus is its
sweeping "Quad"-an open expanse of lawn and walkways, and a popular gathering
place for students throughout the day.

Syracuse University is chartered by the New York State Board of Regents and
accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education, 1007 North
Orange Street, 4th Floor, MB #166, Wilmington, DE 19801; 267-284-5000. In
addition to MSCHE institutional accreditation, some schools and colleges,
academic programs, and units are evaluated by specialized and professional
accreditors. The University's accreditation schedule can be found on the
Institutional Effectiveness and Assessment accreditation webpage Professional
accreditation for each of the professional colleges and schools accords with
the regulations of the appropriate professional association. For further
information, contact the dean's office of each school or college.

Syracuse University is committed to compliance with Section 504 of the
Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, and
all other applicable laws prohibiting disability discrimination. These
statutes generally prohibit discrimination against individuals with
disabilities and provide that no otherwise qualified person with a disability
shall be excluded from participation in, be denied benefits of, or be
subjected to discrimination under any program or activity receiving federal
financial assistance. Students who may need assistance should contact the
Center for Disability Resources, 804 University Avenue; Suite 303,
315-443-4498, 315-443-1371 (TTY), www.disabilityresources.syr.edu.

## Tuition and Fees

Bursar Operations publishes the Syracuse University Bulletin: Tuition, Fees,
and Related Policies, which provides information about tuition, room, meal
plans, and other University fees.

## Academic Calendar

Academic Calendars for 2023-2024.

## Admissions and Financial Aid

### Undergraduate Admission

To receive information about undergraduate admissions, please contact the
Office of Admissions, 401 University Place, 315- 443-3611, or send an e-mail
to orange@syr.edu. Visit our web site at https://www.syracuse.edu/admissions/

### Financial Aid

To receive information about financial aid, please contact the Office of
Financial Aid and Scholarship Programs located at 200 Bowne Hall. Reach us by
telephone at 315-443-1513, or send an e-mail to
http://financialaid.syr.edu/emailus/. Visit our website for detailed financial
aid information at https://financialaid.syr.edu. Current students may access
their MySlice financial aid portal for additional aid information, to submit
documents, and for a list of outstanding requirements.

### Graduate Admission

#### Post-Secondary Education Requirements

To be considered for admission, an applicant to a graduate program at Syracuse
University must provide documentation of having earned the degree required for
admission to the particular program or documentation demonstrating that the
applicant will complete the required degree prior to beginning studies at
Syracuse University. In most cases, this will be a U.S. bachelor's degree or
its equivalent from another country. For some degree programs, this will be a
master's degree or its equivalent from another country. Degrees earned by
international applicants must be from colleges or universities that are
recognized by the national educational authority of the institution's home
country.

Admitted students will be required to submit official degree bearing
transcripts. All official documentation must bear the appropriate signatures
and seal of the institution from which the degree was issued.  The institution
must send the official degree documentation directly to Syracuse University.

To meet this requirement, contact the Registrar's Office of the higher
educational institution that conferred the degree and request the electronic
official transcript(s) be sent to Syracuse University. All original
transcripts must be in English or translated into English and notarized by the
Registrar's Office at the institution attended. The Registrar's Office at the
institution may send the official degree documentation as follows:

  * Transcript service. If the institution uses a transcript service such as Parchment, WES, or other services, they can select **Syracuse University Graduate Admissions** to send the official documents electronically.
  * Secure email. If the institution uses a secure email system requiring a password, the official documents can be sent to grad@syr.edu.
  * By mail to the following address: 
    * Enrollment Services Processing Center  
Syracuse University  
Graduate Admissions Processing  
400 Ostrom Ave.  
Syracuse New York 13244

#### General Required Materials

Individuals interested in applying to a graduate program offered at Syracuse
University must complete an official graduate application and submit one copy
of records of all previous post secondary education. Most departments also
require three letters of recommendation and scores from standardized aptitude
tests. The Program Requirements List by School/College included in the
Graduate Application contains the specific tests required by each academic
unit.

#### International Students

Those applicants whose primary language of instruction has not been English
must take the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL). Applicants who
are citizens of the following English-speaking countries are not required to
submit TOEFL scores: Australia, Bahamas, Barbados, Canada, Fiji, Ireland,
Jamaica, New Zealand, Trinidad and Tobago, and the United Kingdom.

Please be aware that exam scores are not generally available until four to six
weeks after the exam is administered. It is the applicant's responsibility to
ensure that exam scores reach Syracuse by any applicable deadlines. All scores
for TOEFL, GRE, and GMAT are reported to a single location at Syracuse
University. The institution code for Syracuse University is 2823.

Each academic unit establishes acceptable scores and may also require other
demonstrations of English language competence. Details are available from
academic units directly.

If you are admitted and need to obtain a non-immigrant student visa to enter
the U.S. or transfer to Syracuse University from another school in the U.S.,
you must show evidence of having secured sufficient funding for at least the
first year of study. For a privately sponsored applicant, acceptable evidence
of such funding consists of a certified current bank statement on official
bank letterhead, signed by an authorized bank official, indicating that
sufficient funds exist to meet at least first-year expenses in U.S. dollars. A
government-sponsored applicant must submit an original award letter (or a
certified copy of an award letter). The letter must state the annual amount of
the award in U.S. dollars.

All financial documents must be written in English and valid within one year
of the start of the semester. Please note that it is only possible to estimate
the annual cost of attendance for graduate students because costs vary widely
according to the number of credits taken as well as the lifestyle of the
student.

**Non Immigrant Alien Students**

Syracuse University is authorized under federal law to enroll non immigrant
alien students.

**Graduate Financial Assistance**

Many graduate students receive financial assistance, either through Syracuse
University or outside programs. For a full list of funding opportunities,
visit Funding Options in the Graduate School website for additional
information and deadlines.

## Hours of Operation

Academic building hours may be found at
https://policies.syr.edu/policies/university-facilities-equipment-and-
property/access-to-and-use-of-university-premises-and-equipment/.

## University Facilities

Syracuse University students learn, study, and play among the 300 buildings on
900 acres that make up the campus. The University's 152-year history is
reflected in buildings across campus, with architectural styles ranging from
Romanesque to modern. Fifteen buildings are listed in the National Register of
Historic Places.

  * The College of Arts and Sciences' humanities programs are concentrated in the Hall of Languages, Huntington Beard Crouse Hall, Bowne Hall, and Sims Hall. Facilities for instruction and research in the sciences are located in the Life Sciences Complex, Physics Building, Heroy Geology Laboratory, Carnegie Library, the Center for Science and Technology, Huntington Hall, and on South Campus at 621 Skytop Road.
  * The Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs is housed primarily in Maxwell Hall and Eggers Hall with additional facilities in Lyman Hall and Steele Hall.
  * The College of Visual and Performing Arts is comprised of the Setnor School of Music, the School of Art, and the School of Design as well as the Departments of Transmedia, Drama, and Communication and Rhetorical Studies. The School of Art is located in the Dorothea Ilgen Shaffer Art Building, Smith Hall and the Comstock Art Facility. The School of Design is located in the Nancy Cantor Warehouse in downtown Syracuse. The Setnor School of Music is located in Crouse College. The Department of Drama is located in the Regent Theatre Complex, which also houses Syracuse Stage, a regional equity theater company. The Department of Communication and Rhetorical Studies is located in Sims Hall. The Department of Film and Media Arts and the Department of Creative Arts Therapy are located in the Dorothea Ilgen Shaffer Art Building.
  * The School of Architecture is located in Slocum Hall.
  * The Syracuse University College of Engineering and Computer Science is housed in Link Hall, the Center for Science and Technology, the Syracuse Center of Excellence Headquarters, Bowne Hall, and on South Campus at 621 Skytop Road.
  * The College of Law is located in Dineen Hall.
  * The David B. Falk College of Sport and Human Dynamics is located primarily in the Falk College Complex with additional facilities in the Women's Building. The college's Department of Marriage and Family Therapy is located in off-campus facilities at Peck Hall in Downtown Syracuse.
  * The Martin J. Whitman School of Management is housed in the School of Management building, located at University Avenue and Marshall Street.
  * The S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications is located in the three-building Newhouse Communications Complex along University Place.
  * The School of Information Studies is located in Hinds Hall.
  * The School of Education is housed primarily in Huntington Hall, with additional program and administrative offices in Sims Hall, the Henry Health Center at 111 Waverly, and the Women's Building.
  * Syracuse University Global is located at 700 University Avenue, between Marshall and Adams streets.

SU maintains a presence in New York City at the Joseph I. Lubin House and the
Fisher Center; in Washington, D.C. at the Center for Strategic and
International Studies; and in California at the SU in LA offices. A variety of
programs and events draw alumni, students, and friends to the centers.

Overseas, Syracuse Abroad houses programs in Florence and London, along with
other sites.

### Student Life Facilities

Students have a variety of housing options on Main Campus and South Campus.
They can live in single rooms, double rooms, and suites in residence halls and
apartments. Students can grab a meal or a snack at any of the five dining
centers or several snack bars around campus.

The Schine Student Center is the hub of student life activity on Main Campus,
housing a food court, auditorium, gallery, lounges, meeting rooms, and student
organization offices in addition to the Intercultural Collective comprised of
the Disability Cultural Center, the LGBTQ Resource Center and the Office of
Multicultural Affairs. The main Campus Store is also located in The Schine.

The JMA Wireless Dome is home to sporting events, commencement, and musical
and cultural events. An international student center, Barnes Center at The
Arch, Goldstein Student Center, the Women's Building, Watson Theater, Robert
B. Menschel Media Center, and several other facilities accommodate student
services and extracurricular programs.

Recreation facilities abound throughout campus. The Barnes Center at The Arch,
Flanagan Gymnasium, the Women's Building, and Ernie Davis Hall contain fitness
centers, swimming pools, gymnasiums, exercise rooms, dance studios, and courts
for racquet sports. Outdoor tennis courts and playing fields are located on
both Main and South campuses. The Goldstein Student Center on South Campus
serves south campus, commuter and off-campus students. The Tennity Ice
Pavilion offers skating rinks for recreational and intramural skating sports.
Hendricks Chapel, on Main Campus, sits majestically on the Quad as the focus
of programs of the dean of the chapel. The St. Thomas More Chapel serves Roman
Catholic students, and the Winnick Hillel Center for Jewish Life serves Jewish
students.

### Administrative Operations

University administrative functions are conducted in Crouse Hinds Hall, Steele
Hall, and at 111 Waverly Avenue on Main Campus and in the Skytop
Administrative Services Building and 621 Skytop Road on South Campus. Academic
Computing Services and facilities for administrative data processing are
located in the Green Data Center and Machinery Hall, with administrative
offices located in the Center for Science and Technology, 410 South Crouse
Avenue and 621 Skytop Road.

The State University College of Environmental Science and Forestry (ESF) is
situated on its own campus, adjacent to Main Campus.

## Libraries

On the web at library.syracuse.edu, Syracuse University Libraries is your
partner in learning, creativity, community, and research. The Libraries is the
hub of the academic community on campus and offers extensive print and online
collections in a wide range of formats, knowledgeable and helpful librarians
and staff, and access to up-to-date technology. **Contact us by calling
315.443.4083, texting 315.464.0744, emailing at libref@syr.edu, or Live
Chatting at library.syracuse.edu.**

Students can begin your research using one of our curated Research Guides on
various subject matters or Course Guides for specific classes. Our diverse
collections include nearly 5 million items, including online and print
journals, as well as maps, images, sound and video recordings, music scores,
rare books, and manuscripts. Over 700 research databases contain the full text
and images from hundreds of thousands of e-books, journals, and newspapers.
The Libraries also offers guidance on citing sources. Our online resources are
accessible to SU students anywhere.

Contact the Libraries to borrow books for a semester, access materials from
other libraries across the globe via Interlibrary Loan, borrow technology,
access course reserves, or reserve a study room. We are committed to providing
all SU students with equitable access to resources and services, and we offer
a range of services for individuals who may require assistance or specific
tools.

Syracuse University Libraries spaces include:

  * **Bird Library**, home to _Pages_ Café, houses humanities and social science materials, library administrative offices, and Special Collections Research Center. Located within the seven floors of Bird Library are: Blackstone LaunchPad, a cross-disciplinary experiential entrepreneurship program open to all students; Syracuse Abroad@Bird; Center for Learning and Student Success, offering academic support, tutoring, and academic coaching; SOURCE, the Office of Undergraduate Research and Creative Engagement; and Digital Scholarship Space providing a workshop, laboratory, and classroom for digital artifacts and experiences.
  * **Carnegie Library** on the Shaw Quadrangle features a quiet reading room and computer cluster.
  * **King + King Architecture Library**, located in the School of Architecture in Slocum Hall, contains a materials library.
  * **College of Law Library** ,**** located in Dineen Hall.

Other campus libraries include the Martin Luther King, Jr. Memorial Library
(African American Studies Department).

## Information Technology Services

315.443.2677  
ITS.syr.edu  
help@syr.edu

Instagram: @su_its

Information Technology Services (ITS) ensures Syracuse University students
have access to a broad range of computing and information technology services.
Services provided include:

  * Productivity and collaboration tools such as Microsoft Office 365 and Google Workspace
  * MakerSpace and Digital Scholarship Space
  * Research computing
  * Email
  * LinkedIn Learning
  * High-speed wired and wireless Internet connections across campus
  * Technology-enhanced classrooms and collaborative spaces
  * Computer labs

Two key platforms for success at Syracuse University are MySlice
(myslice.syr.edu) and Blackboard (blackboard.syr.edu). MySlice provides a
secure gateway to all essential University resources, including the course
catalog, financial aid and more. The Blackboard online learning platform hosts
thousands of courses across campus.

Additional computing resources for specific academic programs and research
activities are available through the University's schools and colleges.

**Getting Help**

In addition to maintaining the University's computing and network services,
ITS provides a variety of support options:

  * Online, self-serve support information is available at answers.syr.edu.
  * Students can resolve NetID account issues including password management and multi-factor authentication at netid.syr.edu.
  * The ITS Service Center is available by phone (315.443.2677), by email (help@syr.edu) or through in-person support. You can find information regarding ITS Service Center hours at its.syr.edu/its_service_center.

## Health and Wellness

The Barnes Center at The Arch is a state-of-the-art health, wellness and
recreation complex located at 150 Sims Drive between the JMA Wireless Dome and
Carnegie Library. The integrated wellness team offers modern and expanded
programs and services that promote holistic health and well-being to all
students in one accessible, centralized space on campus. Highlights include
the following. Visit the Barnes Center website or call 315.443.8000 to learn
more about accessing services, resources and appointments.

  * Barnes Center at The Arch Wellness Wheel
  * Crowley Family MindSpa
  * Counseling
  * Esports facility
  * Group fitness classes
  * Group Counseling
  * Health Care (e.g. appointments, consultation, immunizations, vaccines, travel, more)
  * Health Insurance
  * Intramural sports
  * Laboratory
  * Medical transportation (ambulance, non-urgent)
  * Meditation room
  * Nutrition Counseling
  * Outdoor adventure trips
  * Peer education
  * Psychiatry
  * Recreation (e.g. pool, fitness centers, climbing wall and more)
  * In-person and Virtual Retail Pharmacy
  * Referrals
  * Safer Sex Express
  * Soul Series
  * Walters Pet Therapy Room

### Student Health and Wellness Fee

The Student Health and Wellness Fee is mandatory for full-time undergraduate
students, College of Law students registered for 12 or more credits and
graduate students registered for nine or more credits. Students who are not
required to pay the Student Health and Wellness Fee but would like to pay the
fee for the semester to obtain eligibility for these services are asked to
complete the Student Health and Wellness Fee Request Form. Visit the Barnes
Center at The Arch About webpage for complete details.

### Confidentiality

Visit the Barnes Center at The Arch Confidentiality webpage to learn more.

### Emergency

If you are experiencing a life-threatening emergency or you are in immediate
danger, call 911.

  * Syracuse University Ambulance (Call 315.443.4299 #78 using a cell phone or 711 from a campus phone.): Provides basic life support and emergency medical services to the campus community, 24-hours a day during the academic year.
  * 24-Hour Support (Call 315.443.8000): Syracuse University students experiencing a mental health crisis, seeking support for sexual assault or relationship violence, or needing urgent medical consultation can receive free confidential services 24 hours a day, seven days a week by calling 315.443.8000. Please note, routine consultations should hold until the next business day.
  * Visit the Barnes Center at the Arch Emergency webpage for additional information.

### Student Health Insurance Requirement

Each year, all full-time, matriculated undergraduate, graduate and law
students are required to demonstrate proof of qualifying health insurance
coverage or enroll into the Student Health Insurance Plan. Students within
traditionally online degree programs are not eligible to enroll in or waive
the Student Health Insurance Plan.

Failure to take action or receive an approved waiver by the deadline, will
result in automatic enrollment into the Student Health Insurance Plan and the
anticipated premium fee to remain on the student's Bursar account.
Additionally, this will result in a delay of active insurance coverage and
access to insurance cards. Visit the Barnes Center at The Arch Student Health
Insurance webpage for deadlines and to learn more.

### Immunization Requirements

If documents are not received by deadlines, students may risk administrative
consequences, including the inability to register for classes and more. Visit
the Barnes Center at The Arch Patient Portal instructional webpage to learn
more.

  * Documentation of two doses of measles, mumps and rubella (MMR) or proof of immunity.
  * Documentation of one dose of meningococcal meningitis ACWY vaccine within the preceding five years and after the age of 16 or a completed waiver form declining the vaccination.

Please contact the Barnes Center at The Arch by calling 315.443.8000 or visit
Immunization Requirements webpage for complete details.

## Career Services

(315) 443-3616  
careerservices.syr.edu

From connecting passions to coursework, experiencing internships, securing
professional employment, and setting career goals, Syracuse University Career
Services is here to help you achieve your unique professional dreams.

Through personalized meetings, strategic professional development resources
and networking opportunities, the team is devoted to helping you achieve not
only post-graduation employment but long-term professional successes.

Whether you are looking to begin your professional development journey or
seeking support during an employment offer negotiation, Syracuse University
Career Services alongside campus partners, are here to help you define and
achieve professional success.

A brief description of services:

Handshake. Handshake is Syracuse University's centralized career management
tool. As a free resource to students and alumni, Handshake hosts available
internships, professional employment, and professional development
opportunities available through School and College Career Services, Syracuse
University Career Services, and other internal and external partners. All
students are recommended to create and complete their Handshake profile upon
entry to Syracuse University. By doing so, this allows students to stay up to
date on all career and academic opportunities provided to them throughout
their time on-campus, including career advising and guidance by Syracuse
University Career staff.

Career advising and guidance. Each Career advising experience is customized to
meet your professional development needs and to answer your questions.

Through advising sessions, formal assessments, and informational resources,
the wealth of career development resources across campus help students gain
clarity in their academic and career interests. For students who know exactly
what field they wish to pursue, career advisors assist in strategizing and
navigating the internship/job search process. They can also help students
build application documents such as resumes and cover letters and strengthen
interview skills.

School/College Career Services. Students are encouraged to utilize the career
office in their home school/college for specialized career advising,
internships and specific programming. Career exploration specialists in
Central Career Services are here to help undergraduate students navigate
choosing a major and finding a career path that aligns with their professional
goals. Career Services for graduate students can be found in The Graduate
School.

Employer Connections. Each semester, Career Services across campus host large-
scale career fairs and on-campus interviews to connect students with employers
in their desired industries. Typically, several hundred employers attend these
fairs and hold on-campus interviews, seeking to hire for internship and full-
time positions. Additionally, Central Career Services manages an online job
board, Handshake, which promotes employment opportunities, career development
workshops, and employer information sessions targeted for SU. Additionally,
career offices host large-scale events and programs that connect students with
employers and SU alumni in their desired career fields.

Internship Funding Opportunities. Increasing professional development and
removing barriers for career exploration experiences is a cornerstone of
Syracuse University Career Services. Through established funding awards,
students receive support to engage with employer partners, while offsetting
any financial need that hinder them from obtaining and completing the
experience.

Alumni Engagement. Specialized events such as the Alumni Speaker Series and
immersion programs help connect students with alumni from diverse backgrounds
and industries, in designated geographic locations away from campus. Students
can also learn about these unique opportunities to connect with our SU
community through Handshake. In addition, students can access the 'CuseConnect
LinkedIn group, as this is a valuable resource for exploring careers and break
into the working world. Upon graduation, our graduates have access to
continued career support through the Office of Alumni Engagement.

For more information about Career Services, or to schedule an appointment with
a career exploration specialist, please call (315)443-3616.

## Syracuse University Internship Opportunities

Elective Internships: Syracuse University Career Services

http://careerservices.syr.edu/internshipsjobs/internships-for-
credit/index.html

Career Services offices across campus help students explore local, regional
and national internships (whether they carry academic credit or not)
throughout their time at Syracuse. Internships may be taken during any
semester or summer session. Each school and college facilitates the internship
process and makes information about internship options available to graduate
and undergraduate students from across the University via Handshake. Students
who want to receive academic credit for their internship are subject to the
provisions and regulations of the school or college in which they are
enrolled.

Elective internships can provide students with opportunities to apply what
they have learned in the classroom, explore career options, develop specific
skills, and become involved with community service. The specific role of the
intern varies based on the experience, the student's goals, objectives, and
the organization's needs and resources.

### Academic Credit

Once accepted for an internship, students must complete a learning proposal
that describes the goals and activities planned for the internship and an
online supplemental information (and waiver) form, available through their
school or college.

Internships for elective academic credit require at least 45 hours of
internship work for each credit earned. Thus, during a regular 15-week
semester, an intern may earn three credits by working an average of 9 hours a
week. During summer sessions, work schedules vary widely and often include
more than the minimum number of hours. The number of credits are determined by
the specific department, school or college in which a student is enrolled. On
average students register between 1 and 6 credits.

During fall and spring semesters, full-time undergraduate students may include
internship course credits as part of their regular course load, which allows
up to 19 credits without incurring additional tuition charges. Undergraduates
accepted for summer sessions internships pay tuition at the rate set for other
summer credits. All graduate students and all University College students
taking internships for credit pay tuition at the rates set for other credits.

Interns must be registered during the semester or summer session in which
their internships take place. Retroactive credit is not granted.

For further information about local and national internship opportunities,
program policies, and application and registration procedures, please refer to
the internship contact list or students can visit the career office in their
school or college.

## Interdisciplinary and Specialized Study

Syracuse University has long promoted the development of special programs and
research groups, many of an interdisciplinary nature. Not only does Syracuse
offer a wide array of interdisciplinary programs of study, but many individual
courses provide students with considerable flexibility in developing their
academic programs. Students enrolled in certain programs at Syracuse may also
take selected courses at one of the two SUNY institutions adjacent to the
campus, the College of Environmental Science and Forestry and SUNY Upstate
Medical University. Detailed descriptions and requirements of these programs
are given in the appropriate colleges' and schools' listings in this catalog.

The interdisciplinary network at Syracuse also encompasses faculty members who
serve in dual capacities, holding joint appointments in more than one
department within the University or at other institutions. For example, some
School of Education faculty members regularly instruct classes in the Maxwell
School of Citizenship and Public Affairs and vice versa. Other faculty members
hold external appointments in addition to their posts at the University.

### Graduate Study

Generally, graduate students select a program of study within one academic
unit that leads to a degree conferred by the Graduate School. Students may
also choose to pursue formal joint-degree programs. In such cases, the student
is enrolled in more than one school or college and is able to earn two degrees
with fewer total credit requirements than two separate degrees. A student
enrolled in a joint degree program must meet the degree requirements in each
school or college. Examples of joint degree programs are the law/public
administration (J.D./M.P.A.) program, the law/business administration
(J.D./M.B.A) program, the law/cultural foundations of education (J.D./M.S)
program, the law/forensic science (J.D./M.A.) program, and the
law/international relations (J.D./M.A) program. Students wishing to pursue
joint law/graduate degrees must be admitted to the College of Law and complete
their first year of legal studies before admission to the joint law/graduate
programs is considered.

Similar in concept to joint degree programs are concurrent degree programs,
which also allow students to pursue programs of study in more than one
discipline simultaneously, often with fewer total credit requirements than the
two separate degrees. This plan leads to two degrees, one in each program of
study.

Under the terms of a formal Scholar Exchange Program, Syracuse graduate
students may avail themselves, for up to one year of study, of classes offered
by Cornell University or the University of Rochester in addition to the
courses and programs offered by Syracuse University.

## The Center for Advanced Systems and Engineering (CASE)

The Center for Advanced Systems and Engineering (CASE) is an ESD/NYSTAR-
designated Center for Advanced Technology (CAT) funded by New York State to
support collaboration with industry towards innovative, interdisciplinary
research in complex information-intensive systems. CASE's mission is to
catalyze growth in the state's high technology economy by connecting industry
with technical expertise in data fusion, data mining, command and control,
machine learning and AI, security assurance, wireless communication, sensor
network/management, and unmanned aerial systems, to develop new products and
services.

CASE serves number of industry-facing roles at Syracuse University. Through
CASE's Co-op and Internship Program, graduate students can apply what they
have learned in the classroom to real-world projects working for CASE on
assignments created by the University's industry partners. For faculty and
students interested in entrepreneurship, CASE offers business incubation
support and helps lead SU's efforts in the National Science Foundation
Interior Northeast Innovation Corps (I-Corps) Hub, providing resources for
early-stage technology commercialization. A CASE experience can significantly
enhance students' professional development and career options.

## The Syracuse University Infrastructure Institute (SUII)

The Syracuse University Infrastructure Institute is an interdisciplinary
institute drawing upon the expertise of faculty and students from all schools
and colleges at SU. The mission of SUII is to facilitate efficient, effective
and socially responsible infrastructure development and rehabilitation,
globally and domestically. Participants in the institute are engaged in
research, teaching and commentary about the planning, management, building,
funding, and societal impacts of public and private infrastructure. Faculty
and students study such topics as infrastructure computer vision, resilient
communities, energy efficient building design, alternative project delivery
systems, educational implications of transportation systems, affordable
housing, and green infrastructure. The Institute develops and supports
curriculum for undergraduates, graduate students, and professionals.

## The Graduate School

Peter A. Vanable, Associate Provost for Graduate Studies and Dean of the
Graduate School  
Gabrielle Chapman, Associate Dean  
304 Lyman Hall, 315-443-2543  
graduateschool.syr.edu  
gradschool@syr.edu

Graduate study and research have been recognized as a critical piece of
Syracuse University's mission since its inception in 1870. Today, every school
and college at Syracuse offers graduate study, and the University awards
approximately 1,700 master's degrees and certificates of advanced study and
150 doctoral degrees annually. A complete listing of graduate degree programs
can be found in the Academic Offerings Tab section in this catalog.

Individual graduate programs are administered by departments or
interdisciplinary committees and are subject to approval by the appropriate
schools and colleges and by the University Senate. These policies and
standards are administered by the Graduate School. All post-baccalaureate
degrees are awarded through the Graduate School, with the exception of the
J.D. degree, which is awarded through the College of Law.

Graduate students will learn from a full-time faculty of more than 800
scholars, many of them internationally or nationally recognized in their field
and will assist faculty both in the classroom and with important research
initiatives.

All Syracuse University graduate degree programs, with the exception of law,
are organized under the auspices of the Graduate School. Applications for
admission are submitted to the Graduate School, which also confers degrees
upon graduation. The graduate degree programs themselves, however, are offered
by faculty of the University's 12 academic schools and colleges. This unique
organizational structure fosters intellectual collaboration and exploration
across the disciplines while at the same time recognizing the highly
specialized nature of graduate-level academic work.

Requests for information about graduate programs should be directed to the
specific academic units offering those programs. Questions about University-
wide policies should be directed to the Graduate School.

## Syracuse University Graduation Rate

In compliance with the federal Student-Right-to-Know and Campus Security Act,
and regulations of the U.S. Department of Education, Syracuse University
provides the following information to current and prospective students: Of the
cohort of full-time degree-seeking undergraduate students who first enrolled
at Syracuse University in fall 2016, 83 percent had earned their bachelor's
degrees as of August 2022. These beginning and end dates comprise 150 percent
of the normal length of full-time study (4 years) needed to complete a typical
undergraduate degree program. While this calculation meets the act's
requirements for determining a graduation rate, Syracuse University recognizes
that many students for diverse reasons are unable or choose not to complete
their degrees in a continuous sequence of full-time enrollment and, therefore,
that the rate may not accurately reflect the commitment and achievement of its
students. Moreover, the act's stipulation that the graduation rate be that of
the cohort of entering full-time students leaves out the significant
population of part-time students who constitute an important part of the
Syracuse University community.

## Syracuse University Leadership

The Officers of the University are:

Kent Syverud, Chancellor and President  
J. Michael Haynie, Vice Chancellor for Strategic Initiatives and Innovation

Gabriel M. Nugent, Senior Vice President and General Counsel

Mary Opperman, Senior Vice President, University Secretary  
Brett Padgett, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer

Gretchen Ritter, Vice Chancellor, Provost and Chief Academic Officer  
  
For more information on University leadership, please visit the Chancellor's
website at chancellor.syr.edu

## Student Privacy Rights (FERPA)

Annual Notification of Rights Under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy
Act

Syracuse University fully complies with the federal Family Educational Rights
and Privacy Act and its implementing regulations, as amended (collectively,
"FERPA"), and with guidelines recommended by the American Association of
Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers. FERPA gives students certain
rights with respect to their education records. These rights include:

I. The right to inspect and review the student's education records.  
  
Students should submit to the University Registrar (106 Steele Hall, Syracuse
University, Syracuse, NY 13244-1120 or registrar@syr.edu) a written request
that identifies the record(s) they wish to inspect. The University Registrar
will make arrangements for access, excluding records and documents that are
not education records or that a student is otherwise not entitled to access or
has waived their right of access, and notify the student of the time and place
where the records may be inspected. Access will be provided within a
reasonable time, not to exceed 45 days after the Registrar's receipt of the
student's request. Upon reasonable request, and to the extent necessary, the
appropriate University personnel will explain information contained in
education records. Students have the right to review only their own records.
When a record contains information about more than one student, the University
will limit access to that part of the record which pertains only to the
student requesting access unless information regarding the other student(s)
cannot be segregated and redacted without destroying the meaning of the record
insofar as it pertains to the requesting student.  
  
II. The right to request the amendment of the student's education records that
the student believes are inaccurate, misleading, or otherwise in violation of
the student's privacy rights under FERPA. A student requesting an amendment to
their education records should obtain a Request to Amend or Remove Education
Records form from the Registrar's Office and clearly identify the part of the
record they want amended and specify why it is inaccurate, misleading or in
violation of their rights of privacy. The University Registrar may concur that
an amendment is appropriate and will take steps to make the amendment. If not,
the student will be notified within a reasonable period of time that the
records will not be amended and will be informed by the University Registrar
of the right to a hearing. If the hearing results in a final determination not
to amend the record, the student will be permitted to place a statement with
the record commenting on the contested information, stating their disagreement
with the decision not to amend the record, or both.  
  
The right to challenge information in education records does not include a
right to contest grades or other substantive matters accurately reflected in
the records. Thus, this procedure may not be used to change a grade in a
record unless the grade assigned was inaccurately recorded, in which case the
record will be corrected.

III. The right to provide written consent before the University discloses
personally identifiable information from the student's education records,
except to the extent that FERPA authorizes disclosure without consent.  
  
A student has the right to consent to the disclosure of personally
identifiable information contained in their education records, except to the
extent that FERPA authorizes disclosure without consent. Set forth below is
information about some of the circumstances in which FERPA authorizes such
disclosures. The University reserves the right to make disclosures of
information from education records without a student's consent in these and
other circumstances in which such disclosures are permitted by FERPA.

The University may disclose education records without a student's prior
written consent to school officials with legitimate educational interests. The
University may make such disclosures in these and other circumstances as and
to the extent permitted by FERPA.

_A school official is:_ a person employed by the University in an
administrative, supervisory, academic or research or support staff position; a
person or company with whom the University has contracted (such as an
attorney, auditor, or collection agent); a person serving on the Board of
Trustees; a student serving on an official committee, such as a disciplinary
or grievance committee, or assisting another school official in performing
their tasks; or a person volunteering or otherwise performing services for the
University. A contractor, consultant, volunteer, or other party to whom the
University has outsourced institutional services or functions may be
considered a school official, only if he/she performs an institutional service
or function for which the University would otherwise use employees, is under
the direct control of the University with respect to the use and maintenance
of education records and agrees to use the education records only for the
purposes for which they were disclosed.

A school official has a "legitimate educational interest" when they have a
need to access student education records for the purpose of performing an
appropriate educational, research, administrative or other function for the
University. This includes performing tasks specific to job, contractual, or
volunteer duties and provision of a service or benefit relating to the student
or the student's family. The information sought and provided must be pertinent
to and used within the context of official University business and not for a
purpose extraneous to the official's area of responsibility.

The University may disclose education records without consent to officials of
another university, college or school in which a student seeks or intends to
enroll, or is already enrolled, for purposes of the student's enrollment or
transfer.

The University may disclose education records without consent to parents of a
dependent student as defined by the Internal Revenue Code, when proof of
dependency has been provided. A "parent" is a parent, legal guardian, or
someone acting as a parent who meets the IRS standard. (Note: Students should
refer to their individual school/college policies concerning parental
notification of information regarding academic misconduct and/or academic
performance.)

The University may make such disclosures in the case of emergencies to
appropriate persons, if the knowledge of such information is necessary to
protect against an articulable and significant threat to the health or safety
of a student or other persons.  
  
IV. The right to prevent disclosure of personally identifiable information
that Syracuse University has designated as "Directory Information."  
  
Unless a student has followed the steps described below, the University may
disclose "Directory Information" without consent in accordance with the
provisions of FERPA. Directory Information is defined as that information
which would not generally be considered harmful or an invasion of privacy if
disclosed. Syracuse University considers the following to be directory
information:

Name  
Current address and phone number  
Permanent address and phone number  
SU email address  
Academic awards and honors  
Athletic participation  
Class/level  
Dates of attendance  
Degree(s) earned and date(s)  
Full/part-time status  
Majors(s)/degree program(s)  
Photograph or other visual image  
Prior postsecondary institutions attended  
SU school/college(s)

Students have the right to have some or all of this Directory Information
withheld from the public if they so desire. To prevent disclosure of Directory
Information, students must file a _Request to Prevent Disclosure of Directory
Information_ form with the Registrar's Office, 106 Steele Hall or
registrar@syr.edu. Requests may be filed at any time and remain in effect
permanently (including after departure from the University) until removed, in
writing, by the student.

Any student who has reason to believe that the University is not complying
with FERPA or this policy should inform the University Registrar in writing.
The Registrar shall promptly review all such allegations and initiate
appropriate actions. In addition, students have the right to file complaints
with the United States Department of Education concerning alleged failures by
the University to comply with the requirements of FERPA. Complaints may be
submitted in writing to:  
  
Family Policy Compliance Office  
U.S. Department of Education  
400 Maryland Avenue, SW  
Washington, DC 20202

  
For additional information about the University's FERPA policy, see
https://policies.syr.edu/policies/university-governance-ethics-integrity-and-
legal-compliance/compliance-with-the-family-educational-rights-and-privacy-
act-ferpa/.

Related Policy: Information Technology Resources Acceptable Use Policy

###  Student Grievance Processes

Student Grievance Processes information may be found at
https://www.syracuse.edu/life/students/grievance-processes/. Students must
contact their home school or college with grievances related to academic
matters. Grievances related to conduct of faculty, staff and other students
should be brought to the Dean of Students Office.

## Distance Learning Students Information

Syracuse University's degree and certificate programs delivered through
distance education are registered with the New York State Education Department
(NYSED).

The State Authorization Reciprocity Agreement (SARA) is a national initiative
to provide more access to online courses while maintaining compliance
standards with state regulatory agencies. SARA allows institutions to provide
online courses outside of their own state borders by seeking and maintaining
state approvals via a streamlined process. New York State joined SARA on
December 9, 2016. On February 15, 2017, the National Council for State
Authorization Reciprocity Agreements (NC-SARA) approved institutional
participation for Syracuse University.

### Distance Learning Complaint Process for Out-of-State Students

Any student, including those out-of-state, who wishes to lodge a complaint or
grievance must first file the complaint following Syracuse University's
internal processes. NC-SARA consumer protection complaints should initiate
with the Office of Academic Affairs. Academic complaints or grievances should
be initiated with the instructor, then the academic department chair or dean.
Grievances related to conduct of faculty, staff and other students should be
brought to the Dean of Students Office. Further information can be found on
the student grievance processes page.

If a complaint is not resolved satisfactorily within the University, under
terms of the NC-SARA agreement, a student may file a complaint with New York
State Education Department (NYSED). As our state portal entity, NYSED will
investigate dishonest or fraudulent activity by any institution participating
in NC-SARA. This includes the possibility of an institution providing
potentially misleading or false information.

New York State Education Department  
**Andrea Richards  
Supervisor of Higher Education Programs **  
89 Washington Ave.  
Albany, NY 12234  
518.474.1551  
IHEauthorize@nysed.gov

Additional information regarding filing a complaint may be found below:

NC-SARA https://www.nc-sara.org/student-complaints  
New York State Education Department http://www.nysed.gov/college-university-
evaluation/complaints

## Policies for Recipients of the Post 9/11 G.I. Bill (Ch.33) or Veteran
Readiness and Employment (Ch. 31) Benefits

In accordance with Title 38 US Code 3679 subsection (e), this school adopts
the following additional provisions for any students using U.S. Department of
Veterans Affairs (VA) Post 9/11 G.I. Bill® (Ch. 33) or Veteran Readiness and
Employment (Ch. 31) benefits, while payment to the institution is pending from
the VA. This school _will not_ :

  * Prevent nor delay the student's enrollment;
  * Assess a late penalty fee to the student;
  * Require the student to secure alternative or additional funding;
  * Deny the student access to any resources available to other students who have satisfied their tuition and fee bills to the institution, including but not limited to access to classes, libraries, or other institutional facilities.

However, to qualify for this provision, such students may be required to:

  * Produce the Certificate of Eligibility by the first day of class;
  * Provide written request to be certified;
  * Provide additional information needed to properly certify the enrollment as described in other institutional policies.

_" GI Bill® is a registered trademark of the U.S. Department of Veterans
Affairs (VA). More information about education benefits offered by VA is
available at the official U.S. government Web site at
https://www.benefits.va.gov/gibill."_

## Nondiscrimination and EEO Policy

Syracuse University does not discriminate on any protected basis. This
includes in admission, treatment, or access to its programs and activities or
in employment in its programs and activities. The University prohibits
harassment or discrimination related to any protected categories. The
protected categories include **creed, ethnic or national origin, sex, gender,
pregnancy, disability, marital status, political or social affiliation, age,
race, color, veteran status, military status, religion, sexual orientation,
domestic violence status, gender identity, gender expression or perceived
gender.**

EOIRS is charged with ensuring compliance with a broad array of laws,
statutes, and administrative policies regarding gender and racial equity,
discrimination, and sexual harassment including Title VI, Title IX, Title VII,
the Americans with Disabilities Act as amended (ADAAA), Sections 503 and 504
of the Rehabilitation Act, NY Human Rights laws and Affirmative Action
Planning. The scope of responsibility is much broader than compliance,
however. It includes a core educational mission for the campus that involves
staff, faculty and departmental training; policy review; analysis of
compensation and recruitment practices; conflict resolution; facilitating
reasonable accommodations for people with disabilities; and affirmative action
planning. For more information, visit the Equal Opportunity, Inclusion and
Resolution Services website.

Any complaint of discrimination or harassment related to any of these
protected categories (including any concern of sexual or relationship
violence) should be shared with the University's Chief Equal Opportunity and
Title IX Officer, Sheila Johnson-Willis, who is responsible for coordinating
compliance efforts under the various laws including Titles VI and VII of the
Civil Rights Act, Title IX* of the Education Amendments, and Sections 503 and
504 of the Rehabilitation Act. You can contact Ms. Johnson-Willis at Equal
Opportunity, Inclusion and Resolution Services, 005 Steele Hall, Syracuse
University, Syracuse, NY 13244-1520; OR by email: sjohnson@syr.edu; or by
telephone: 315-443-1520.

If you have questions about compliance with the ADA, the Rehabilitation Act,
the New York Human Rights Law, or interpretation of its provisions, such as
the obligation to provide reasonable accommodations, please contact the
University's ADA\503\504 Coordinator, William Myhill, by email: ada@syr.edu OR
by telephone: 315-443-2377.

*Title IX prohibits harassment or discrimination based on sex, gender, sexual orientation, gender expression, or gender identity. Titles VI and VII prohibit harassment or discrimination based on race, national origin, color, religion or sex. Sections 503 and 504 and the Americans with Disabilities Act prohibit discrimination or harassment because of disability. In addition, New York law prohibits discrimination or harassment based on these and other protected categories.

## Campus Safety

It is Syracuse University's policy to provide anyone, on request, with a
printed copy of the University's policies and procedures regarding campus
security and safety, as well as crime rates and statistics for the most recent
three-year period. A copy of Your Safety and Security at Syracuse University,
a handbook that provides this information in compliance with a federal law
known as the Clery Act, is available from DPS. The handbook is updated
annually.

The Syracuse University Department of Public Safety will provide upon request
all campus crime statistics as reported to the United States Department of
Education.

US DOE website: http://ope.ed.gov/security/

The Drug Free Schools and Campuses Act Report provides information about
substance use and abuse, institution policies and programs in place to provide
intervention and support. To request a print copy of the Syracuse University
Drug Free Schools and Campuses Act report, please contact Risk Management and
Regulatory Compliance at riskadmin@syr.edu or 315.443.4011. Once you submit
your request, your print copy will be delivered within 10 days.  
  
  

* * *

![Print this page.](img/print.gif)Print this Page

Facebook this Page (opens a new window)

Tweet this Page (opens a new window)  
  
|  Global Search Catalog Search  
Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Schools and Colleges
Academic Rules Entire Catalog  
Search Keyword Field  
  
Whole Word/Phrase  
Advanced Search  
  
---  
  
* * *  
  
Catalog Navigation |  Catalog Home

* * *

General Information

* * *

Academic Rules

* * *

Undergraduate University Requirements Syracuse University's Shared
Competencies

* * *

Academic Offerings Other Programs Courses

* * *

School of Architecture College of Arts and Sciences School of Education
College of Engineering and Computer Science David B. Falk College of Sport and
Human Dynamics School of Information Studies Martin J. Whitman School of
Management Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs S.I. Newhouse
School of Public Communications College of Professional Studies College of
Visual and Performing Arts SUNY-ESF (Partner Institution)

* * *

Archived Catalogs  
---  
  
* * *  
  
All catalogs (C) 2024 Syracuse University. Powered by Modern Campus Catalog™. | 

