Skip to Content

#

|

##  Course Catalog

Office of the Registrar, 106 Steele Hall Syracuse, NY 13244 | (315) 443-2422

  * ﻿ Like Us on Facebook
  * ﻿ Follow Us on Twitter

  * Accessibility
  * Accreditation
  * Emergencies
  * Privacy

  
---  
2023-2024 Graduate Course Catalog Syracuse University |   
|  |  2023-2024 Graduate Course Catalog |  |  Select a Catalog 2024-2025 Undergraduate Course Catalog 2024-2025 Graduate Course Catalog 2023-2024 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2023-2024 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2022-2023 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2022-2023 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2014-2015 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2014-2015 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] |   
---|---  
|  Sep 19, 2024  |   
|  |  **HELP** 2023-2024 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]  

#  Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs

![Print this page.](img/print.gif)Print this Page Facebook this Page (opens a
new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window)  
---  
  
* * *  
  
  * Academic Offerings
  * Faculty
  * Courses
  * About the School
  * Graduate Degrees
  * Executive Education
  * Centers and Institutes
  * Syracuse Abroad
  * Financial Aid

|

  * Anthropology Department Overview
  * Economics Department Overview
  * Geography and the Environment Department Overview
  * History Department Overview
  * Political Science Department Overview
  * Public Administration and International Affairs Department Overview
  * Sociology Department Overview

  
---|---  
  
David Van Slyke, Dean ![Portrait photograph of Dean David Van
Slyke](/mime/media/14/3526/Van-Slyke_MG_5304-2-WVS.jpg)  
200 Eggers Hall  
www.maxwell.syr.edu/

### About the School

David Van Slyke, Dean  
200 Eggers Hall

The Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs was established in 1924
to teach citizenship and develop leaders with strong social science
backgrounds and the practical skills required for public service. Today the
School is home to six social science disciplines, interdisciplinary
undergraduate and graduate programs, and graduate professional programs that
educate students for diverse careers in the public and private sectors in the
United States and around the world.

With its 170 faculty members, 95 staff, 750 graduate students and 2,000
undergraduate majors, the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs is
dedicated to research and teaching excellence for engaged citizenship and
public impact.

Maxwell programs rank highly among their peers because the School attracts
talented faculty and students, produces high quality research, and develops
students into global leaders, scholars, analysts, policymakers, and engaged
citizens.

For a complete listing of faculty associated with the Maxwell School, see the
"Faculty" section of this catalog.

### Graduate Degrees

The School offers master's (M.A.) and doctoral (Ph.D.) degrees in
anthropology, economics, geography, history, political science, and sociology,
as well as a Public Administration PhD, and an interdisciplinary Social
Science PhD . In addition, five professional degrees are offered in: Public
Administration (M.P.A.), International Relations (M.A.I.R.), Public Diplomacy
and Global Communications (MA offered jointly with the Newhouse School), and,
for mid-career executives, Public Administration (Executive M.P.A.,
residential or online) and International Relations (Executive M.A.I.R.).

### Executive Education

Through its Executive Education program, Maxwell offers executive master's
degrees, certificates of advanced study, and training programs for mid-career
professionals from across the globe. These students, scholars and participants
may study at Maxwell for a few weeks to a year or more. Additionally,
Executive Education hosts the Hubert H. Humphrey Fellowship and the National
Security Management course and also provides training programs for a wide
array of U.S.-based and international NGOs, public sector organizations and
agencies, governments and universities.

The Executive MPA (EMPA) is available online or on campus. The Executive MAIR
(EMIR) is available on campus or in Washington, DC at the Center for Strategic
and International Studies, a top-ranked global think tank, and home of
Maxwell-in-Washington programs.

### Centers and Institutes

Each department and program in the Maxwell School prioritizes research.

Many faculty members also participate in one or more of eleven research
centers and institutes that provide valuable resources to faculty clustered
around significant topics. Among the research centers at the Maxwell School
are the Aging Studies Institute, the Autonomous Systems Policy Institute, the
Center for Policy Research, the Program for the Advancement of Research on
Conflict and Collaboration, the Center for Policy Design and Governance, the
Lerner Center for Public Health Promotion and Population Health, the Institute
for Security, Policy and Law. The Aging Studies Institute, the Autonomous
Systems Policy Institute, the Institute for the Study of the Judiciary,
Politics and the Media, and the Institute for Security, Policy and Law involve
faculty from across the campus.

The Maxwell School also has two institutes that focus on major domestic and
international issues: the Alan K. Campbell Public Affairs Institute and the
Moynihan Institute of Global Affairs. Through the involvement of visiting
scholars, reflective practitioners, and the broader Syracuse University
community, the institutes contribute to understanding, cooperation, and
ongoing dialogue in the areas of governance, law and politics, and citizenship
in the United States and around the world. All the centers and institutes
welcome interested students who want to learn the craft of research and work
and write with faculty.

#### Aging Studies Institute

Director Janet Wilmoth  
314 Lyman Hall

ASI is a collaborative initiative of the Maxwell School of Citizenship &
Public Affairs and the David B. Falk School of Sport and Human Dynamics. Its
mission is to coordinate and promote aging-related research, training, and
outreach at Syracuse University. With over 65 faculty affiliates from 17
departments in 7 colleges/schools, ASI provides multi-disciplinary research
and education that is relevant to almost every academic discipline on campus.
ASI is committed to developing the next generation of scholars and
practitioners. It provides education and training opportunities to
undergraduate students and faculty members at Syracuse University. ASI
supports the undergraduate minor in Gerontology, where students are exposed to
a variety of theoretical perspectives, research methodologies, and policies.
ASI also coordinates and promotes a range of age-related graduate-level
coursework that is offered by various SU departments, including the
Certificate of Advanced Study in Population Health and Aging. In addition, ASI
hosts a seminar series, thematic conferences, and workshops. ASI is the home
of the Center for Aging and Policy Studies (CAPS) and the Policy, Place, and
Population Health (P3H) lab. It is also involved in the Aging, Health, and
Neuroscience (AHN) cluster.

#### Autonomous Systems Policy Institute

Director Hamid Ekbia  
310A Maxwell  
aspi@maxwell.syr.edu

The Autonomous Systems Policy Institute (ASPI) is dedicated to
interdisciplinary scholarship and teaching related to the design, governance,
and societal impacts of autonomous systems and to critically engage and shape
the policy and ethical frameworks that guide the use and development of
autonomous systems. ASPI incorporates research and teaching on all autonomous
systems, from driverless cars to unmanned aerial vehicles to maritime systems.
This broad approach, plus ASPI's interdisciplinary reach, allows it to offer a
synthesizing, critical perspective on how autonomous systems impact the world
around us and what kinds of policies, norms, and practices can best shape
their ethical and fair use. ASPI brings academic insight, community needs, and
industry developments into conversation and joint action. It involves faculty
from all SU schools and colleges and creates research opportunities for
graduate and undergraduate students. Additionally, ASPI hosts speaker series,
public events, and student and faculty workshops.

#### Campbell Public Affairs Institute (nondegree)

Director  
Grant Reeher, Professor of Political Science

Staff  
Jackie Nocevski, Administrative Assistant (Budget and Grants)  
Kelley Coleman, Administrative Assistant and Assistant to the Director

The Campbell Public Affairs Institute examines and promotes citizenship,
public leadership, and governance. We explore the relationships between and
among leaders, citizens, private organizations, and governments in an effort
to understand and contribute to the development and implementation of
effective management, policy, and democratic practices. In that endeavor we
also promote public engagement on the part of the Institute, its faculty, and
students across the university. The Institute sponsors a variety of
programming related to these themes, including the Tanner Lecture Series on
Ethics, Citizenship, and Public Responsibility; the State of Democracy Lecture
Series; the Campbell Debates; and the Campbell Conversations, a public affairs
radio program airing on WRVO Public Media.

Faculty - Senior Research Associates  
Lamis Abdelaaty, Kristi Andersen (Emeritus), Verena Erlenbusch-Anderson,
Kenneth Baynes, Keith Bybee, Andrew Cohen, Elizabeth Cohen, Maraam Dwidar,
Christopher Faricy, Shana Gadarian, Jeffrey Gonda, Johannes Himmelreich, Zack
Huitink, Jenn Jackson, Thomas Keck, W. Henry Lambright, Sandra Lane, Elisabeth
Lasch-Quinn, Tina Nabatchi, Sean O'Keefe, John Palmer (Emeritus), Sarah
Pralle, Dennis Rasmussen, Robert Rubinstein, Jennifer Stromer-Galley, Margaret
Thompson, Emily Thorson, Steven White, and Baobao Zhang.

#### Center for Environmental Policy and Administration (nondegree)

Director Peter Wilcoxen  
426 Eggers Hall

Faculty: Jacob Bendix, A.H. Peter Castro, Jay Golden, Matthew Huber, W. Henry
Lambright, Allan Mazur, John McPeak, Mark Monmonier, Thomas Perreault, David
Popp, Sarah Pralle, Jane M. Read, Rebecca Schewe, Saba Siddiki, Farhana
Sultana, Robert Wilson

The Center for Environmental Policy and Administration (CEPA) is an
interdisciplinary center within Syracuse University's Maxwell School of
Citizenship and Public Affairs. CEPA explores environmental issues from an
integrated perspective that considers technical, social, and humanistic
aspects of environmental matters and prepares leaders who can blend those
dimensions as they confront the world's complex environmental challenges. It
brings together faculty and graduate students from a range of Maxwell
departments, including anthropology, economics, geography, political science,
public administration, public affairs, and sociology.

Recent work by CEPA members has examined a wide range of topics, including
climate change, international trade and the environment, technology and
environmental policy, environmental governance and management, environmental
issues in developing countries, land use changes, biodiversity conservation,
energy policy, the role of environmental advocacy groups, and public attitudes
toward the environment.

CEPA has a close working relationships with the Center for Policy Research,
and with SU faculty from outside Maxwell, particularly those in biology, earth
sciences, and the colleges of law, engineering, and information studies. Also,
CEPA members work with faculty at the nearby SUNY College of Environmental
Science and Forestry (ESF) and with the faculty and staff of the Syracuse
Center of Excellence in Environmental and Energy Systems. maxwell.syr.edu/cepa

#### Center for Policy Research (nondegree)

Director Shannon Monnat  
426 Eggers Hall  
315-443-3114

Associate Director John Yinger  
Associate Director for Administration Margaret Austin

Faculty: Badi Baltagi, Robert Bifulco, Carmen Carrion Flores, Sean Drake,
Alfonso Flores-Lagunes, Sarah Hamersma, Madonna Harrington Meyer, Colleen
Heflin, William Horrace, Yilin Hou, Hugo Jales, Jennifer Karas Montez,
Gabriela Kirk, Jeffrey Kubik, Yoonseok Lee, Wei Li, Jianzuan Liu, Andrew
London, Leonard Lopoo, Amy Lutz, Yingyi Ma, Jerry Miner, Shannon Monnat, Jan
Ondrich, David Popp, Stuart Rosenthal, Michah Rothbart, Alexander Rothenberg,
Rebecca Schewe, Amy Ellen Schwartz, Ying Shi, Saba Siddiki, Merril
Silverstein, Perry Singleton, Yulong Wang, Emily Wiemers, Pete Wilcoxen, Janet
Wilmoth, Douglas Wolf, John Yinger, Maria Zhu

The Maxwell School Center for Policy Research (CPR) supports discipinary and
interdisciplinary policy-relevant research and dissemination that enables
leaders to make informed policy decisions and provide effective solutions to
critical challenges in our local region, state, country, and across the world.

The Center includes faculty from several departments within the Maxwell
School, mainly Economics, Public Administration and International Affairs, and
Sociology. This collection of specialists brings a depth of experience and
skill to research and offers students a wealth of opportunity for
collaboration and mentorship on their own research, as well as the possibility
of research assistantships on projects directed by the faculty. CPR also hosts
a regular policy seminar series, special lectures, and methodology workshops,
and publishes working papers and Policy Briefs, which are available on the CPR
website.

#### Daniel Patrick Moynihan Institute of Global Affairs (nondegree)

Director Margaret G. Hermann  
346 Eggers Hall  
315-443-4022, Fax: 315-443-9085

The Daniel Patrick Moynihan Institute of Global Affairs facilitates
interaction among faculty and students across the Maxwell School who are
interested in understanding the challenges to governance and citizenship
globally as well as in exploring the international and global concerns that
are raised by an interdependent world of diverse actors, cultures, economies,
geographies, and political systems. Its programs emphasize the importance of
multidisciplinary and comparative research for understanding critical world
problems as well as the importance of making its research accessible and
useful in policy debates and scholarly discourse and in a form that can be
incorporated into curricula for both current students and those returning for
further training.

The Moynihan Institute was endowed by the US Congress to honor Senator Daniel
Patrick Moynihan. Its programs are intended to carry on and extend his public
and intellectual legacies. The Senator's trademarks were an uncanny ability
(1) to sense what were about to become pressing social and political problems,
(2) to integrate and synthesize theoretical and empirical research to propose
why the problems were occurring, and (3) to propose possible solutions to such
problems by applying what he had learned from theory and data. The Moynihan
Institute works to exemplify these characteristics in its approach to
national, international, and global issues and challenges.

The Institute fulfills its mission by providing students and faculty with
opportunities to participate in regional studies programs and centers. It
hosts seven such programs/centers: the Center for European Studies, the Middle
Eastern Studies Program, the Maxwell African Scholars Union, the East Asia
Program, the South Asia Center, the Central Asia and the Caucasus Working
Group, and the Program on Latin America and the Caribbean. These regional
studies programs/centers provide students with chances to learn more about the
world in which they live and will work, facilitating students gaining
education, research, language, and internship experiences in these various
regions of the world. They also offer students certificates of advanced study,
dual degrees, regional minors/majors, and funding for travel, study, and
research in a region. Moreover, these programs/centers provide curriculum
development grants for faculty to create new courses on regional topics and
monies to organize workshops and conferences as well as to provide research
assistantships.

Furthermore, the Institute sponsors multidisciplinary research working groups
composed of both graduate students and faculty working on a particular
international or global problem/challenge. These working groups sponsor
lecture series, provide research fellowships and internship opportunities to
graduate students, offer early opportunities for publications, and organize
conferences, credit-bearing seminars, and certificates of advanced study for
students involved in the groups. Current research working groups are focused
on mapping global insecurity and on the challenges facing transnational non-
governmental organizations; rebel governance; the effects of extraction on
citizenship; the International Space Station as an example of international
collaborative governance; and issues related to trade, development, and
political economy. These themes resonate with the life-long interests of
Senator Moynihan and represent the interests of a majority of the faculty in
the Maxwell School who are engaged in doing research on international,
comparative, and global problems.

#### Lerner Center for Public Health Promotion and Population Health

Director, Shannon Monnat  
426 Eggers Hall

The Lerner Center for Public Health Promotion is a Maxwell School center that
conducts, coordinates, and promotes population and community health research,
education, advocacy, and health promotion programming. The Center was
established in 2011 with an endowment from Sid and Helaine Lerner. The
Center's mission is to improve population and community health through
research, education, and advocacy, and health promotion programming focused on
the social, spatial, and structural determinants of physical, mental, and
behavioral health and health disparities. The Lerner Center has over 20
faculty affiliates from public health, sociology, psychology, economics,
medicine, and public administration, comprising broad multidisciplinary
expertise in population and public health research. It provides research
assistantship and training opportunities to SU graduate and undergraduate
students. The Lerner Center supports the Certificate of Advanced Study in
Population Health and Aging and the Policy, Place, and Population Health Lab -
a hub for interdisciplinary research and training on how places and their
policies shape population health. In addition to its national Healthy Monday
health promotion programming, the Lerner Center leads a variety of on- and
off-campus health promotion initiatives.

#### The Institute for the Study of the Judiciary, Politics, and the Media

Director Keith J. Bybee  
408c Dineen Hall

A collaborative effort between the College of Law, the Maxwell School of
Citizenship and Public Affairs, and the S.I. Newhouse School of Public
Communications. IJPM is devoted to the interdisciplinary study of issues at
the intersection of law, politics, and the media. We sponsor lectures and
symposia designed to foster discussion and debate between scholars,
policymakers, sitting judges, and working journalists. We are home to a book
series and journal showcasing the latest scholarly research in our areas of
interest. We coordinate and promote undergraduate and graduate curricula
designed to introduce students from across the university to the
interdisciplinary study of law and legal institutions. We also support Faculty
and Research Fellows from the College of Law, the Maxwell School, and the
Newhouse School whose research and publications are relevant to the multiple
connections between law, politics, and the media.

#### Syracuse University Institute for Security Policy and Law

Dineen Hall, Suite 300  
315-443-2284

The Syracuse University Institute for Security Policy and Law (SPL) is a
multidisciplinary, university-based center for the study of national security,
international security, and counterterrorism, offering law and graduate
certificates of advanced study and conducting incisive research and timely
policy analysis.

Headquartered in the Syracuse University College of Law, SPL is a
collaboration among the College of Law, the Maxwell School of Citizenship and
Public Affairs, and other SU colleges and departments. SPL's initiatives and
projects have shaped security dialogues on law and policy since 2003.

SPL was founded as the Institute for National Security and Counterterrorism
(INSCT) in 2003 by Professor Emeritus William C. Banks, who helped set the
scholarly parameters of this field by co-authoring two leading textbooks:
_National Security Law_ and _Counterterrorism Law_.

Since 2018, SPL has been led by the Hon. James E. Baker, one of the most
highly regarded national security lawyers and policy advisors in the nation.
Before joining the College of Law, Baker served on the US Court of Appeals for
the Armed Forces for 15 years, the last four as Chief Judge. Continuing his
public service, Baker was appointed to the Public Interest Declassification
Board by President Barack Obama, and he is a Member of the ABA Rule of Law
Initiative Board of Directors.

SPL continues to advance its mission to be an internationally recognized
center for interdisciplinary teaching, for multi-method research into complex
security problems, and for public service to practitioners grappling with
seemingly intractable national, international, and human security issues.
Agile and responsive, SPL's educational and research programs continue to
track the changing nature of these issues, as battlefields become virtual,
wars become asymmetric, homeland security remains critical, human rights
crises become commonplace, and the rule of law becomes indispensable.

#### Program for the Advancement of Research on Conflict and Collaboration
(nondegree)

Director Prof. Tina Nabatchi  
400 Eggers Hall  
315-443-2367

parccadm@syr.edu

The Program for the Advancement of Research on Conflict and Collaboration
(PARCC) is an interdisciplinary program research center devoted to advancing
the theory and practice of conflict analysis and the analysis of conflict, the
resolution of conflict and, collaborative action, and collaborative
governance. Initially known for its groundbreaking work on conflict
transformation, intractable conflicts, and identity conflicts in the
international arena, PARCC's areas of research have expanded to include
environmental conflicts, advocacy and activism, and collaborative governance.
The primary goals of the program are to develop knowledge about the context
and stages of different conflicts and, on that basis, to assess and teach
alternate methods of conflict transformation. A special interest is the
emergence of collaborative problem solving as a critical skill set for the
public sector. The diverse backgrounds of over 80 PARCC faculty associates
reflect the program's emphasis on interdisciplinary research and theory
building. Faculty come from the departments of anthropology, geography,
history, international relations, political science, public administration,
social science, and sociology and from the schools of law, education, public
communications, management, human services, and visual and performing arts.

The research interests of PARCC associates and graduate students may be
characterized by a series of questions: What are the significant differences
and similarities of various kinds of conflicts? How can theory be made
applicable to the work of practitioners and the experience of practitioners
contribute to the refinement of theory? How can governments work more
collaboratively across sectors and with citizens? How can groups unite to
address social issues? What are the appropriate strategies at different stages
of conflicts? How can intractable conflicts be moved to the stage where de-
escalation can take place? What kinds of conflict resolution and collaborative
methods are effective for different circumstances? How can we move from
destructive to constructive conflicts?

Program associates are engaged in studies that relate to collaborative
governance, collaborative public management, foreign policy decision making
during crises, cultural aspects of conflict, geo-political ideologies, ethnic
conflicts, labor studies, nonviolent means of protest, gender and conflict,
community organizing efforts, alternative dispute resolution methods, conflict
transformation, interpersonal violence, prevention and management of disputes
through public participation, and de-escalating initiatives and peacemaking.
Other activities of the program include a theory-building seminar, working
groups organized around specific research topics, a conflict studies speaker
series, and interdisciplinary conferences and publications focused on
conflict-related topics. PARCC provides skills-building workshops and trains
students to work with others and in the community. PARCC's EPARCC collection
of teaching cases and simulations is used globally. PARCC is a base for
graduate studies in collaborative governance, collaborative public management,
conflict analysis and conflict resolution. A Certificate of Advanced Study
(CAS) in Conflict and Collaboration is awarded to students who meet the
established certificate requirements as they complete a graduate degree from
SU or the State University of New York College of Environmental Science and
Forestry. The CAS may be completed as a stand-alone program in person or
online.

### Syracuse Abroad

Most students pursuing the International Relations, MA degree take advantage
of Syracuse Abroad offerings. Many students choose to find internships abroad
and may choose to study at one of seven overseas centers.

### Financial Aid

Academic departments and programs each have an array of financial aid,
including University Fellowships, graduate assistantships, tuition
scholarships, and grants-in-aid. Graduate admissions officers in each graduate
program allocate financial aid based largely on merit.

Doctoral students generally receive tuition, stipends and health insurance
coverage in exchange for teaching or research services. Some students receive
University Fellowships.

Master's students are eligible for financial awards, including fellowships,
assistantships (partial or full), partial tuition scholarships, and grants-in-
aid.

### Anthropology Overview

Christopher DeCorse, Chair  
209 Maxwell Hall  
315-443-2200

Faculty: Mona Bhan, Christopher R. DeCorse, Amanda Hilton, Azra Hromadzic, Jok
M. Jok, Heather Law-Pezzarossi, Kyrstin Mallon Andrews, Shannon A. Novak,
Guido Pezzarossi, Lars Rodseth, Robert A. Rubinstein, Maureen Trudelle
Schwarz, Theresa A. Singleton, John Marshall Townsend, Lauren Woodard

Courtesy Appointments: Philip Arnold, Tom Brutsaert, Gareth J. Fisher, Ann
Grodzins Gold, Sandra Lane, Kenneth Kelly, and Dale Tomich

Anthropology at Syracuse University is oriented primarily toward sociocultural
studies and historical archaeology, with emphases on applied and interpretive
research. As a department within the Maxwell School, the graduate anthropology
program offers dual degree tracks that include public affairs or public
policy.

Department strengths include language and power, religious systems, medical
anthropology, the social use of terrestrial space, local-level globalization,
culture change, indigenous environmentalism, and social movements. The
department offers a strong focus on the African diaspora within its historical
archaeology program. Interdisciplinary ties within the Maxwell School, with
SUNY College of Environmental Science and Forestry, and with SUNY Upstate
Medical University enhance offerings in environmental topics, historical
preservation, policy planning, international relations, and health-related
subjects.

Graduate certificates are available for qualifying anthropology graduates in
Women's Studies, South Asian Studies, Conflict Resolution, Cultural Heritage
Preservation, Middle Eastern Affairs, and Latin American Studies.

Anthropology is primarily a Ph.D. program. A master's degree may be earned as
a step toward the doctorate. While some graduate students are self-funded,
most are supported with teaching assistantships and fellowships.

Anthropology graduate students comprise a multiethnic international community.
More than half are women. The department is sufficiently large to provide
focused breadth, yet small enough to encourage graduate students to work
closely with faculty mentors.

The department participates in the University-wide Future Professoriate
Project, which trains graduate students for college teaching and otherwise
prepares them for academic and professional careers. Anthropology graduates
who have elected to pursue non-academic careers have found employment in
governmental agencies and in NGOs.

The department of anthropology at Syracuse University encourages students from
various backgrounds to seek admittance. Not all entering students have a
degree in anthropology; some enter the program with backgrounds in public
health, English literature, history, psychology, journalism, or biology.

Graduate students are expected to secure outside funding to help support their
doctoral research. The department has a limited endowment, the Claudia De Lys
Scholarship in Cultural Anthropology, which provides modest support for a few
students annually. A formal course in grant writing has proved helpful to many
graduates in obtaining funding.

The University offers nine-month teaching and research assistantships.
Outstanding students are eligible for University Fellowships, and the Dean's
Summer Assistantship. U.S. citizens interested in studying South Asia are
eligible for National Resource Fellowships through the SU South Asia Center.

A few doctoral projects are the following:

  * The nature of childhood in a 19th century abolitionist congregation;
  * Gender and land movements in Brazil;
  * Resettlement experiences of Bosnian refugees in the United States;
  * Sexual minorities and political activism in Pakistan;
  * The politics of public space in India;
  * Deconstructing culture, religion, and class among Irish tenant farmers;
  * The archaeology of community, ritual, and politics in 17th c. Maryland; and
  * Social networks and plantation slavery from colonial to modern in Brazil.

### Economics Department Overview

Devashish Mitra, Chair  
110 Eggers Hall  
315-443-3612

Faculty: Merima Ali, Elizabeth Ashby, Badi Baltagi, Kristina Buzard, Carman
Carrion-Flores, Gary V. Engelhardt, Alfonso Flores-Lagunes, William Horrace,
Hugo Jales, Andrew Jonelis, Leyla Karakas, Jeffrey D. Kubik, Derek Laing,
Yoonseok Lee, Chung-Chin (Eugene) Liu, Mengxiao (Michelle) Liu, Michael
Lorenzo, Mary E. Lovely, Devashish Mitra, Inge O'Connor, Jan Ivar Ondrich,
Stuart S. Rosenthal, Alexander Rothenberg; Amy Ellen Schwartz, Abdulaziz
Shifa, Perry Singleton, Aron Tobias, Yulong Wang, John M. Yinger, Maria Zhu

The Economics department offers separate programs leading to the M.A. and the
Ph.D. degrees. The department's faculty members have an orientation toward
applied and policy-related economics that is built on a strong foundation of
economic theory and statistical and econometric methods. The department
teaches about 3,000 students per year, has approximately 40 doctoral students
in residence, and enrolls 30-35 master's students at various stages of study.

The department chooses to be selective in its acceptance of students to its
programs and as a result has a low graduate student-to-faculty ratio. The
average number of students in an entering Ph.D. class ranges from 8 to 12 with
a somewhat larger number entering the M.A. program. This small size allows for
more interaction between faculty and students than is found in other programs
with larger numbers of students. The department enjoys strong loyalty from its
many distinguished alumni, who have positions in academia, business, and
government.

### Geography and the Environment Department Overview

Peng Gao, Chair  
144 Eggers Hall  
315-443-2607

Jonnell Robinson, Director of Graduate Studies  
215 Lyman Hall  
315-443-4890

Faculty: Ethan Coffel, Peng Gao, Timur Hammond, Matthew Huber, Meghan Kelly,
Natalie Koch, Anne E. Mosher, Karl Offen, Andre Ortega, Tom Perreault, Jane M.
Read, Jonnell Robinson, Tod D. Rutherford, Chie Sakakibara, Farhana Sultana,
Robert M. Wilson, Jamie L. Winders

The Syracuse University Department of Geography and the Environment is an
integral component of the Maxwell School and of the College of Arts and
Sciences. Interdisciplinary work has always been a particular strength. Areas
of expertise include environment-society relations; cultural, economic,
political, urban and environmental, historical, physical, and urban geography;
community geography; physical geography; and in geographic information systems
(GIS) and geospatial analysis. The Department maintains connections with
several Maxwell programs, including the Program for the Advancement of
Research on Conflict and Collaboration (PARCC), the Center for Environmental
Policy and Administration (CEPA), and the Moynihan Institute for Global
Affairs. We also maintain close ties with the departments of Food Studies,
Women's and Gender Studies, and Earth and Environmental Sciences, as well as
with Civil and Environmental Engineering, the School of Architecture, and the
State University of New York College of Environmental Science and Forestry
(SUNY ESF). The Department of Geography and the Environment has long valued
investigating geographical processes in a wide array of regions, places, and
landscapes. Recent graduate students have conducted field research in Latin
America and the Caribbean, South Asia, East Asia, Central Asia, Europe,
Canada, and throughout the U.S.

Prospective students will find opportunities to develop an array of research
skills and to study and conduct research with the faculty in the following
specializations:

#### Environment and Society:

Syracuse geographers view nature-society relations dialectically. Central to
this vision is a focus on the relations of power through which particular
forms of nature are produced and governed. We share a commitment to critical
scholarship and environmental justice. We value both empirical - often field-
based - investigation and critical social theory. Nature-society scholarship
at Syracuse University encompasses several foci, including political ecology
and the political economy of nature; environmental governance; environmental
history; natural hazards and social vulnerability; environment and
development; environmental justice; and the social dimensions of environmental
change. In recent years, Syracuse geographers have conducted research on the
gendered dimensions of water governance in Bangladesh; climate change politics
in the United States; the historical development of the U.S. petro-chemical
industry; extractive industries, water governance, and rural livelihoods in
South America; forest fire dynamics and management in California; and
environmental mapping and indigenous geographies in Guyana.

#### Urban Space, Justice and Culture:

Syracuse geographers connect the study of urban landscapes, politics, and
processes to broader struggles for racial and gender equality, social justice,
and political transformation. Through projects that range from constructing
urban geographies of memory to examining the relationship between migration
and changing racial formations in cities to analyzing struggles over and for
urban public space and the right to the city, our faculty draw on a variety of
methodological and theoretical perspectives, particularly critical social
theory, to interrogate the production of urban spaces and experiences.

#### Physical Geography, Environmental Science and Landscape Processes:

Physical geographers at Syracuse University focus on spatial and temporal
aspects of environmental science, with the aim of clarifying the dynamic
processes that shape the earth's landscapes and atmosphere. Faculty conduct
research in four broad areas: human and natural disturbance impacts on
riparian habitats and forest ecosystems; climate change modeling; processes
and implications of sediment transport in rivers; and climate - land-surface
interactions. Graduate students have use of our Physical Geography Research
Laboratory, which is equipped for a variety of soil and sediment analyses, and
includes a Sedigraph 5120 for particle size analysis.

#### Political Geography, Citizenship and Development:

Political geographers at Syracuse are interested in the multiply scaled
practices of citizenship, development, and governance. We examine the complex
and often contradictory processes through which flows of capital, people, and
knowledge are constituted, disseminated, and challenged and the historical and
geographical contexts within which places and subjects are imagined and
transformed. We pay particular attention to the inequalities created by these
flows and how they structure and are structured by global space. Faculty
research in this area includes work on geopolitics and the state system;
nationalism, migration, citizenship, and the politics of belonging; political
economies of energy and resources; gender, development, and agrarian change;
transnational market policies, labor, and social movement politics; and the
impact of colonialism and international development policies.

#### GIS and Geospatial Technologies:

Faculty specializing in Geospatial Information, Analysis and Modeling have a
range of research and teaching interests, including cartography, applications
and methods in geographic information technologies (i.e., geographic
information systems, computer cartography, remote sensing, multimedia),
spatial analysis and modeling, and hydrological and ecosystem modeling,
modeling channel migration; geospatial surveillance technologies; and use of
remote sensing to analyze tropical forest structure, demography, and certified
forestry.

#### Community Geography

Students and faculty involved in Syracuse Community Geography work directly
with community organizations to solve real-world problems.  Faculty and
graduate students conduct research on a range of key social and environmental
issues, with recent topics including spatial analysis of hunger and food
justice in the city of Syracuse; housing segregation; and mapping local nature
preserves. Graduate students have access to two laboratory facilities: the
Geographic Information and Analysis Laboratory in Eggers Hall, and the
Integrated Spatial Analysis Laboratory in Lyman Hall.

#### Historical Geography and GeoHumanities:

This research area links our department's longstanding expertise in historical
geography with the growing interdisciplinary field of the geohumanities. The
geohumanities include, or connect with, recent developments such as historical
GIS, digital humanities, spatial history, and the environmental humanities.
Faculty in this research area share a commitment to examining the formation of
cultural landscapes, the meanings and emotions people experience in them, and
subjective responses to place. Our faculty employ qualitative methods,
including archival research, field studies, and oral histories, as well as
newer digital tools such as historical GIS. To help interpret sources, faculty
draw on relevant historiography and critical social theory.

#### Political Economy:

Global capitalism is based on international flows of capital, labor, and
commodities. Yet, the ways these flows become contested is fundamentally
geographical - struggles over global trade agreements, national labor laws,
urban occupations of public space, and 'unpaid' work in the household. The
political economy specialization in our department adopts Marxian, post-
structural, feminist, and institutional approaches to the restructuring of
capitalism at multiples scales. While we examine the formal economy and
capital-labor relations in the workplace, we also place special emphasis on
social reproduction and everyday survival as critical to understanding a
variety of sociospatial dynamics from energy consumption to labor migration.
We understand capitalism as shaped by politics and the variety of social
struggles over wealth distribution, labor conditions, and power asymmetries
based on class, race, gender, sexuality, and other axes of difference.

Within the framework of these principal clusters, graduate students pursue
individually designed programs, assisted by their advisor and advisory
committee. The goal is to maintain and enhance an open intellectual
environment with continuous interaction between graduate students and
departmental faculty. In support of this, the department maintains strong
collaborative relations with academic departments across campus, as well as
with allied departments at other colleges and universities in the region. We
also organize a colloquium series every semester that brings distinguished
scholars to the Department, and occasionally organize conferences and symposia
across a range of topics.

We typically have about 35 students in the program, of whom 20-25 are in
residence. Each student has an advisory committee, consisting of the principal
advisor plus additional faculty members. The committee advises the student and
regularly evaluates progress toward the M.A. or Ph.D. degree.

### History Department Overview

Susan Branson, Chair  
George Kallander, Director of Graduate Studies  
145 Eggers Hall  
315-443-2210

Faculty Alan Allport, Susan Branson, Brian Brege, Craige B. Champion, Omar
Cheta, Andrew W. Cohen, Albrecht Diem, Michael R. Ebner, Carol Faulkner,
Jeffrey Gonda, Paul M. Hagenloh, Samantha Kahn Herrick, Denisa Jashari, Amy
Kallander, George Kallander, Osamah F. Khalil, Radha Kumar, Norman A. Kutcher,
Chris Kyle, Elisabeth D. Lasch-Quinn, Aaron Luedtke, Gladys McCormick, Tessa
Murphy, Mark G. Schmeller, Martin S. Shanguhyia, Junko Takeda, Robert Terrell,
Margaret Susan Thompson

The history department has been granting M.A. and Ph.D. degrees since 1871. As
part of the College of Arts and Sciences and the Maxwell School, the
department has links to both the humanities and social science programs of the
University.

The early development of the department received special impetus with the
University's acquisition of the personal library of about 20,000 volumes of
the great German historian, Leopold von Ranke.

Housed in Bird Library, today it is one of the major European history
collections in the United States. The University's library holdings also
contain substantial collections of primary materials dealing with the history
of East Africa, the United Kingdom, and the United States. Students working in
other fields may take advantage of strong library resources at neighboring
institutions.

A major emphasis in the M.A. and Ph.D. programs is the development of skills
necessary to pursue original research. The training in both programs is
valuable for careers in business, law, government, the media, archival work,
and education. The department has placed its recipients of graduate degrees in
state and federal research positions, in local historical agencies, in
libraries and archives, and in business, as well as in colleges and
universities across the nation and abroad.

### Political Science Department Overview

Shana Gadarian, Chair

Christopher Faricy, Director of Graduate Studies(fall)  
Dimitar Gueorguiev, Director of Graduate Studies (spring)  
100 Eggers Hall  
315-443-2416

Faculty: Lamis Abdelaaty, Richard Barton, Matthew Baxter, Caglayan Baser,
Ekrem Baser, Hossein Bashiriyeh, Kenneth Baynes, Mark Brockway, Keith Bybee,
Horace Campbell, Matthew Cleary, Francine D'Amico, Joshua Darr, Renée de
Nevers, Johanna Dunaway, Colin Elman, Miriam Elman, Verena Erlenbusch-
Anderson, Margarita Estévez-Abe, Christopher Faricy, Shana Gadarian, Liwu Gan,
Ryan Griffiths, Dimitar Gueorguiev, Petra Hejnova, Catherine Herrold, Erin
Hern, Jennifer Jackson, Seth Jolly, Sebastian Karcher, Thomas Keck, Minju Kim,
Audie Klotz, W. Henry Lambright, Daniel McDowell, Glyn Morgan, Sarah Pralle,
Dennis Rasmussen, Grant Reeher, Gretchen Ritter, Shane Sanders, S.N. Sangmpam,
Yüksel Sezgin, Takumi Shibaike, Greg Smith, Jennifer Stromer-Galley, Brian
Taylor, Margaret Susan Thompson, Emily Thorson, Jessie Trudeau, Simon Weschle,
Steven White, Michael Williams, Ryan Williams, Chengzhi Yin, Yael Zeira,
Baobao Zhang

Established in 1924, the department of political science is a national leader
in graduate training.

The curriculum is divided into seven fields: American politics, international
relations, comparative politics, political theory, public administration &
policy, law & courts and security studies. Master's students are not bound by
any specific field requirements. Ph.D. candidates must declare a major and a
minor field or two major fields; they must take at least four courses in each
major field and three courses in a minor field. Most Ph.D. students in
political science receive financial aid, most commonly department
assistantships. Students may also be funded by SU fellowships.

### Public Administration and International Affairs Department Overview

Colleen Heflin, Associate Dean and Chair  
215 Eggers Hall  
315-443-4000

Faculty: William Banks, Richard Barton, Robert Bifulco, Stuart Brown, Renée de
Nevers, Todd Dickey, Catherine Gerald, Jay Golden, Sarah Hamersma, Colleen
Heflin, Catherine Herrold, Johannes Himmelreich, Yilin Hou, Zachary Huitink,
Kris Patel, W. Henry Lambright, Leonard Lopoo, John G. McPeak, Robert Murrett,
Tina Nabatchi, Sean C. O'Keefe, Tomas Olivier, David C. Popp, Michah Rothbart,
Sabina Schnell, Ying Shi, Saba Siddiki, Michiko Ueda, David Van Slyke, Emily
Wiemers, Peter J. Wilcoxen, Michael Williams

The Department of Public Administration and International Affairs offers
management, finance, policy and international affairs coursework exploring a
broad range of topics underlying contemporary global challenges. Modern
society demands innovative leadership, highly skilled public managers,
analysts, and domestic and international issue experts. The faculty in this
department educate students for careers that serve the public good across
sectors, fields and nations.

Inaugurated in 1924, under the leadership of Dean William E. Mosher, Maxwell's
public administration program is the oldest graduate program of its kind in
the United States. Since its founding, the program has exercised major
influence in the growth and development of the field of public administration
and policy. The school's first dean was instrumental in the establishing the
American Society for Public Administration (ASPA), and served as its first
president. The journal Public Administration Review was also founded at
Maxwell in 1937.

Maxwell's Master of Arts in International Relations was established in 1970
and builds on the School's interdisciplinary breadth, and the professional
degree programs were merged into one department to take advantage of their
synergies. These synergies allow the department to offer master's degrees in
public administration and international affairs, as well as a doctoral degree
in public administration.

Drawing upon the interdisciplinary strength of the Maxwell School as a social
science research institution, the Master of Arts in International Relations
provides proficiencies in research, analysis, and project management, as well
as subject-matter expertise in peace, security, and conflict, international
development, governance and diplomacy, and international trade, as well as a
wide variety of area studies.

The Master of Public Administration coursework provides proficiencies in
public and nonprofit management, public budgeting and finance, public policy
analysis and implementation, environmental policy and management, health
policy and management, urban policy and city management, and collaborative
governance.

Both degree programs provide experiential learning opportunities, ensuring
graduates effectively apply core skills to management, budget, programmatic
and policy challenges in international and national settings.

More than 8,000 departmental alumni are employed in federal, state, and local
governments, foundations, private firms, non-governmental and international
organizations worldwide. These alumni lead on international and domestic
public policy issues. Graduates of the Ph.D. program serve on the faculties of
many leading schools of graduate public administration and policy education as
well as serve in think tanks and research organizations.

### Sociology Department Overview

Merril Silverstein, Chair  
302 Maxwell Hall  
315-443-2347  
sociologychair@syr.edu

Selina Gallo-Cruz, Graduate Director

srgalloc@syr.edu

Faculty: Edwin Ackerman, Aaron Benanav, Sean Drake, Jennifer Flad, Marc
Garcia, Selina Gallo-Cruz, Gabriela Kirk-Werner, Madonna Harrington Meyer,
Prema Kurien, Scott Landes, Andrew London, Amy Lutz, Yingyi Ma, Shannon
Monnat, Jennifer Karas Montez, Will Oliver, Arthur Paris, Gretchen Purser,
Rebecca Schewe, Merril Silverstein, Hao-Wei Wang, Janet Wilmoth

Affiliated Faculty: Peter Blanck, Linda Carty, Chandra Talpade Mohanty,
Theresa Selfa, Danielle Smith, David Sonnenfeld, Rick Welsh

Global and inclusive in perspective, the Sociology curriculum has been
designed to reflect on-going changes in society and the discipline. The
graduate program offers training in sociological issues, theory, and practice.
It also provides opportunities for joint degrees or collaborative study with
many departments, multidisciplinary research centers, and area studies centers
at the Maxwell School and in other schools and colleges across the campus.

Graduate training is organized around eight major areas: (1) Globalization,
Immigration, Transnational Studies; (2) Population and Place; (3) Education
and Family; (4) Health, Aging & Life Course, Disability; (5) Inequalities; (6)
Power, Capital, and Politics; (7) Methods; and (8) Theory. A core theory
course incorporates classical foundations of Sociology, as well as more
contemporary sociological theory. Students are trained in quantitative methods
and statistics, as well as qualitative methods including interviewing, and
participant observation. After doctoral students complete the core theory, and
qualitative and quantitative research methods courses, they pursue advanced
study, and develop two or more substantive areas of specialization. This
portion of the program is highly individualized and includes some combination
of advanced seminars, directed studies, and participation in Maxwell School
programs and research centers.

The department does not admit students to a terminal MA program. Students
enrolled in the PhD program earn an MA degree along the way. The Sociology
Department typically admits five to eight new graduate students each year.
This small class size allows students to develop a close relationship with
faculty members and extensive involvement in departmental activities. Graduate
students serve on departmental committees. All graduate students are
encouraged to work closely with faculty advisors to develop their own courses
of study.

Students are encouraged to develop and present their research at professional
meetings and to publish in journals of the discipline, as well as relevant
specialty and interdisciplinary journals. Financial support for conference
participation is available. Joint publication with faculty members is also
encouraged.

In addition to scholarly research activity, the Sociology Department stresses
teacher training. Students are active participants in the University's Future
Professoriate Program, which helps students develop their teaching skills in a
heavily mentored and supportive environment. Most graduates obtain academic
positions in teaching and research colleges and universities.

#### Programs

**Master 's**

  * • Anthropology, MA
  * • Economics, MA
  * • Executive Master in International Relations, MA
  * • Geography, MA
  * • History, MA
  * • International Relations, MA
  * • Political Science, MA
  * • Public Administration (Executive)
  * • Public Administration - Executive (Distance Learning Format)
  * • Public Administration, MPA
  * • Public Diplomacy and Global Communications, MA 
  * • Sociology, MA

**Doctorate**

  * • Anthropology, PhD
  * • Economics, PhD
  * • Geography, PhD
  * • History, PhD
  * • Political Science, PhD
  * • Public Administration, PhD
  * • Social Science, PhD
  * • Sociology, PhD

**Combined Degree**

  * • Anthropology, BA/International Relations, MA
  * • Anthropology, BA/Public Administration, MPA
  * • Citizenship and Civic Engagement BA/ International Relations MA
  * • Citizenship and Civic Engagement BA/Master of Public Administration MPA
  * • Economics and International Relations, MA
  * • Economics BS/MA
  * • Economics, BA/International Relations, MA
  * • Economics, BA/Public Administration, MPA
  * • Geography, BA/International Relations, MA
  * • Geography, BA/Public Administration, MPA
  * • History, BA/International Relations, MA
  * • History, BA/Public Administration, MPA
  * • International Relations, BA / International Relations, MA
  * • International Relations, BA/Public Administration, MPA
  * • International Relations, BS / International Relations, MA
  * • International Relations, BS/ Public Administration, MPA
  * • International Relations, MA/Business Administration, MBA
  * • International Relations, MA/Finance, MS
  * • International Relations, MA/Political Science, PhD
  * • International Relations/Public Administration, MA/MPA
  * • Law/History, JD/MA
  * • Law/International Relations, JD/MA
  * • Law/Political Science, JD/MA
  * • Law/Political Science, JD/PhD
  * • Law/Public Administration, JD/MPA
  * • Policy Studies, BA/International Relations, MA
  * • Policy Studies, BA/Public Administration, MPA
  * • Political Science, BA/International Relations, MA
  * • Political Science, BA/Public Administration, MPA
  * • Public Administration, MPA/Business Administration, MBA
  * • Sociology, BA/International Relations, MA
  * • Sociology, BA/Public Administration, MPA

**Certificate of Advanced Study**

  * • Civil Society Organizations, CAS
  * • Conflict and Collaboration, CAS
  * • Data Analytics for Public Policy, CAS
  * • European Union & Contemporary Europe, CAS
  * • GIS and Spatial Analysis, CAS
  * • Health Services Administration and Policy, CAS
  * • Latin American Studies, CAS
  * • Leadership of International and Non-Governmental Organizations, CAS
  * • Middle Eastern Affairs, CAS
  * • Population Health and Aging, CAS
  * • Postconflict Reconstruction, CAS
  * • Public Leadership and Management, CAS
  * • Public Management and Policy, CAS
  * • Security Studies, CAS
  * • South Asian Studies, CAS

  

* * *

![Print this page.](img/print.gif)Print this Page

Facebook this Page (opens a new window)

Tweet this Page (opens a new window)  
  
|  Global Search Catalog Search  
Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Schools and Colleges
Academic Rules Entire Catalog  
Search Keyword Field  
  
Whole Word/Phrase  
Advanced Search  
  
---  
  
* * *  
  
Catalog Navigation |  Catalog Home

* * *

General Information

* * *

Academic Rules

* * *

Academic Offerings Other Programs Courses

* * *

School of Architecture College of Arts and Sciences School of Education
College of Engineering and Computer Science David B. Falk College of Sport and
Human Dynamics School of Information Studies College of Law Martin J. Whitman
School of Management Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs S.I.
Newhouse School of Public Communications College of Professional Studies
College of Visual and Performing Arts SUNY-ESF (Partner Institution)

* * *

Archived Catalogs  
---  
  
* * *  
  
All catalogs (C) 2024 Syracuse University. Powered by Modern Campus Catalog™. | 

