Skip to Content

#

|

##  Course Catalog

Office of the Registrar, 106 Steele Hall Syracuse, NY 13244 | (315) 443-2422

  * ﻿ Like Us on Facebook
  * ﻿ Follow Us on Twitter

  * Accessibility
  * Accreditation
  * Emergencies
  * Privacy

  
---  
Syracuse University |   
|  |  2023-2024 Undergraduate Course Catalog |  |  Select a Catalog 2024-2025 Undergraduate Course Catalog 2024-2025 Graduate Course Catalog 2023-2024 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2023-2024 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2022-2023 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2022-2023 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2014-2015 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2014-2015 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] |   
---|---  
|  Sep 19, 2024  |   
|  |  **HELP** 2023-2024 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]  

#  Minors at Syracuse University

Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new
window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window)  
---  
  
* * *  
  
Return to: Academic Offerings A minor provides an excellent opportunity to
blend another subject area into your degree program without the additional
requirements of a double major or dual degree. A minor may be related to your
major, or it might be in a completely different academic/professional area.
Because a completed minor appears on your transcript, it highlights another
dimension of educational background to support an application for graduate
study or employment. The proportion of liberal arts and sciences courses
required for the degree must be maintained and minors that are too closely
related to a student's major will not be approved. Minors require a minimum of
18 credits, 12 of which must be in 300- to 400-level courses. The department
or college offering the minor determines which courses are required. Some
colleges require a formal minor as part of the degree program. Minor courses
may or may not fit into the electives of your degree requirements. Your
academic advisor or home college undergraduate office can advise you on the
effect of a minor on your particular degree program, including whether or not
you will need to complete more than the normal total number of credits.

## Enrolling in a Minor

Pursuing a minor should be discussed with your academic advisor as early in
your academic career as possible. You will then complete a Declaration of
Minor form, available in your school/college undergraduate office. The form
must be signed by the department or college offering the minor and, in some
cases, your advisor. Your home college's undergraduate office will review the
paperwork and enter the minor on your student record. A variety of minors
offered by SUNY College of Environmental Science and Forestry are also
available to Syracuse University students. Information about these minors may
be found in Academic Offerings under SUNY-ESF. Students may request admission
into SUNY ESF minors using the same forms and procedures used for Syracuse
University minors. Information about minors that have enrollment limits or
eligibility requirements can be obtained at the sponsoring department/college.
The sponsoring unit can explain specific course requirements and options for
the minor. In some cases, a minor must be officially listed on your record for
you to be able to register for certain restricted courses. The department or
college offering the minor determines the requirements, and any exception to
the minor requirements must be granted by petition through the sponsoring
department/college. After certification by your college for graduation, and if
all coursework for the minor is completed, it will appear on your transcript
under the college, major, and degree listing as "MINOR IN {title}."

## Pursuing More Than One Minor

You may pursue more than one minor if there are enough elective course
opportunities in your degree program or if you choose to graduate with
additional credits. This possibility should be discussed with your academic
advisor or school/college undergraduate office.

## Official Minors

All current official disciplinary minors are listed on the appropriate school,
department, or program pages. Detailed descriptions of requirements for each
minor may be found in Academic Offerings. Interdisciplinary minors within the
College of Arts and Sciences and between the College of Arts and Sciences and
other schools and colleges may be found in Academic Offerings. Please be aware
that not all minors are endorsed by all schools and colleges. You should
verify that the minor you wish to pursue is accepted by your home college.  
  

* * *

Back to Top | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window)

Facebook this Page (opens a new window)

Tweet this Page (opens a new window)  
  
|  Global Search Catalog Search  
Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Schools and Colleges
Academic Rules Entire Catalog  
Search Keyword Field  
  
Whole Word/Phrase  
Advanced Search  
  
---  
  
* * *  
  
Catalog Navigation |  Catalog Home

* * *

General Information

* * *

Academic Rules

* * *

Undergraduate University Requirements Syracuse University's Shared
Competencies

* * *

Academic Offerings Other Programs Courses

* * *

School of Architecture College of Arts and Sciences School of Education
College of Engineering and Computer Science David B. Falk College of Sport and
Human Dynamics School of Information Studies Martin J. Whitman School of
Management Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs S.I. Newhouse
School of Public Communications College of Professional Studies College of
Visual and Performing Arts SUNY-ESF (Partner Institution)

* * *

Archived Catalogs  
---  
  
* * *  
  
All catalogs (C) 2024 Syracuse University. Powered by Modern Campus Catalog™. | 

