Skip to Content

#

|

##  Course Catalog

Office of the Registrar, 106 Steele Hall Syracuse, NY 13244 | (315) 443-2422

  * ﻿ Like Us on Facebook
  * ﻿ Follow Us on Twitter

  * Accessibility
  * Accreditation
  * Emergencies
  * Privacy

  
---  
2023-2024 Undergraduate Course Catalog Syracuse University |   
|  |  2023-2024 Undergraduate Course Catalog |  |  Select a Catalog 2024-2025 Undergraduate Course Catalog 2024-2025 Graduate Course Catalog 2023-2024 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2023-2024 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2022-2023 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2022-2023 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2014-2015 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2014-2015 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] |   
---|---  
|  Sep 19, 2024  |   
|  |  **HELP** 2023-2024 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]  

#  School of Information Studies

![Print this page.](img/print.gif)Print this Page Facebook this Page (opens a
new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window)  
---  
  
* * *  
  
  * Academic Offerings
  * Faculty
  * Courses
  * About the School
  * Accreditation

|

  * Vision and Values
  * Undergraduate Education
  * Student Learning Outcomes
  * Bachelor of Science Degree Requirements

  
---|---  
  
![](/mime/media/35/5806/Sears-400x300-1.jpg)Andrew Sears, Dean  
ischool.syr.edu

### About the School

The Syracuse University School of Information Studies (iSchool) is a leader in
the information field, advancing innovation in the digital age through our
work at the intersection of business, technology, and society.

The iSchool became the original information school in the U.S. when it
embraced information technology and the rise of the internet. Today, we offer
an innovative curriculum that is continually updated to meet future industry
trends and incorporate rapidly changing technologies.

Our faculty combine expertise in information systems, linguistics, computer
science, library science, economics, education, business management, school
media, digital literacy, management information systems, data science,
enterprise and cloud computing, and communication. An active research
community explores topics that reflect the faculty's diverse intellectual
backgrounds and interests.

### Accreditation

Syracuse University is fully accredited by the Middle States Commission on
Higher Education (MSCHE) and all programs are registered with the New York
State Education Department. The MSCHE is a voluntary, non-governmental
membership association that has been dedicated to quality assurance and
improvement through accreditation via peer evaluation since 1919.

### Vision and Values

The School of Information Studies, established in 1896 and renamed from the
Original Information School in 1974, has a long tradition of leading
innovation and change. Our ideals and values are the foundation for our
success. To learn more, visit our website.

### Undergraduate Education

Syracuse University's School of Information Studies (iSchool) undergraduates
are innovative problem-solvers who are studying at the intersection of
technology, business, and society. They explore topics like cloud computing,
cybersecurity, machine learning and AI, social media and data analytics.

Our flexible curriculum allows students to pursue a broad array of
intellectual areas while providing a core knowledge of the technical,
organizational, and communication skills necessary to succeed in our digital
economy.

We offer dual degree programs with Syracuse University's Martin J. Whitman
School of Management and S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications.
Students from other schools and colleges at SU can enroll as a double major in
the iSchool in one of the ischool's three minors.

### Student Learning Outcomes

In the course of earning their degree, students are expected to achieve the
following learning outcomes:

  * Identify and analyze the use of information, technologies, and data to solve problems in various contexts in the age of digital transformation
  * Present ideas through oral and written communication using data and information technologies
  * Identify and propose solutions to issues of diversity, equity, inclusion, and accessibility in the ethical use of data and information technologies
  * Compare the use of information technologies and data in a global context in the age of digital transformation

### iSchool Bachelor of Science Degree Requirements

The B.S. degree in Applied Data Analytics, Information Management and
Technology, or Innovation, Society, and Technology requires 120 credits,
distributed as indicated below.

#### I. iSchool Major (30-31 credits)

Students are required to complete a primary core for each major as a
requirement for graduation. See individual program pages for detailed core
requirements.

#### II. iSchool Electives (15 credits)

Students must complete five additional courses to fulfill their elective
requirement.

Students are required to complete at least one of our course concentrations as
a requirement with a minimum of three courses in that concentration for
graduation in the B.S. degree in Information Management and Technology or
Innovation, Society, and Technology.

Students in the B.S. degree in Applied Data Analytics may complete one iSchool
concentration or obtain a minor outside the iSchool that leverages the use of
analytics (e.g., Sport Analytics, Business Analytics, Computer Science,
Applied Statistics, Economics).  Students who choose to obtain a minor (or
double major) outside the iSchool can count two analytical focused courses as
part of their 15 credit iSchool electives.

**Data Analytics Concentration**

Required

  * IST 359 - Introduction to Database Management Systems
  * IST 387 - Introduction to Applied Data Science

Concentration Electives

  * IST 407 - Data Mining
  * IST 414 - Data Driven Inquiry
  * IST 418 - Big Data Analytics
  * IST 421 - Information Visualization
  * IST 462 - Scripting for Data Analysis

**Digital Retail Strategies Concentration**

Required

  * IST 195 - Information Technologies
  * RMT 301 - Retailing Fundamentals
  * RMT 407 - Retail Buying and Planning
  * RMT 457 - Electronic Retailing and Marketing

Concentration Electives

  * IST 263 - Introduction to Front-End Web Development
  * IST 322 - Digital Strategy & Analytics for the Web
  * IST 486 - Social Media in the Organization
  * IST 523 - Graphic Design for the Web

**Information Security Management Concentration**

Required

  * IST 323 - Introduction to Information Security

Concentration Electives

  * IST 336 - Leading Issues in Information Security
  * IST 342 - Information Security Policy
  * IST 402 - Digital Forensics
  * IST 425 - Enterprise Risk Management
  * IST 431 - Security in a Networked Environment
  * IST 476 - Applied Information Security

**Innovation, Design & Startups Concentration**

Required:

  * IDS 301 - What's the Big Idea?: Technology Innovation
  * IDS 302 - Idea2Startup
  * IDS 403 - iLaunchPad

**Cloud Computing Concentration**

Required

  * IST 233 - Introduction to Networks and Cloud Computing

Concentration Electives

  * IST 346 - Information Technology Management and Administration
  * IST 408 - Blockchain Management
  * IST 431 - Security in a Networked Environment
  * IST 452 - Advanced Computer Networking

**Project Management Concentration**

Required

  * IST 345 - Managing Information Systems Projects

Concentration Electives

  * IST 352 - Information Analysis of Organizational Systems
  * IST 425 - Enterprise Risk Management
  * IST 442 - Agile Project Management Methodologies
  * IST 455 - Enterprise IT Consultation
  * IST 456 - Information Policies and Decision Making

**Web Design & Management Concentration**

Required

  * IST 263 - Introduction to Front-End Web Development

Concentration Electives

  * IST 322 - Digital Strategy & Analytics for the Web
  * IST 341 - Human-Centered Design
  * IST 349 - Human Computer Interaction
  * IST 363 - Advanced Front End Web Design
  * IST 486 - Social Media in the Organization
  * IST 523 - Graphic Design for the Web

#### University-wide Requirements

The iSchool participates in students' knowledge and skill development through
the Shared Competencies, Syracuse University's institutional learning goals
that highlight the knowledge and skills students can expect to gain through
their major courses, liberal arts requirements and co-curricular activities.

All incoming and transfer students are required to take a 1-credit FYS 101
course, and a 3-credit IDEA course that can be selected from an approved list
.

IST courses appearing on the approved IDEA course requirement list may be
taken to fulfill both requirements.

#### III. Skills Electives (15-17 credits)

**A. Programming Skills**

Students are required to complete the computer programming course listed
below:

  * IST 256 - Application Programming for Information Systems
  * Any programming course approved by petition

**B. Communication Skills (9 credits)**

Students are required to take 12 credits in communications skills, including
IST 344 , as well as one course from each of the three categories below:

  * WRT 105 - WRT 105 - Studio 1: Practices of Academic Writing OR
  * WRT 109 - Studio 1: Practices of Academic Writing (Honors)

  * WRT 205 - WRT 205 - Studio 2: Critical Research and Writing OR
  * WRT 209 - Studio 2: Critical Research and Writing (Honors)

  * WRT 303 - Advanced Writing Studio: Research and Writing OR
  * WRT 307 - Advanced Writing Studio: Professional Writing

**C. Quantitative Skills (6-8 credits)**

Students are required to attain minimum competence in mathematics by
completing the quantitative skills requirement of the Liberal Art Core
curriculum of the College of Arts and Sciences.

All IMT and IST majors are required to attain minimum competence in
mathematics. Students may satisfy this requirement by completing the
quantitative skills requirement of the Liberal Arts Core curriculum  
of the College of Arts and Sciences.  
All ADA majors are required to attain minimum competence in mathematics.
Students should take MAT 121 / 122 (Probability and Statistics for the Liberal
Arts) or MAT 221 / 222 (Elementary Probability and  
Statistics).

#### IV. Arts & Sciences Divisional Requirements (12 courses; minimum 36
credits)

Students are required to take three courses in each of the three divisions of
the Arts and Sciences-Natural Sciences and Mathematics, Social Sciences, and
Humanities. In addition, three courses in any of the divisions must be
completed to fulfill this requirement.

#### V. General Electives (20-23 credits)

Students can take any Syracuse University course open to them or concentrate
on a minor, a dual degree, a combined degree, an internship experience, or
study abroad.

Courses appearing on the approved IDEA course requirement list may be taken to
fulfill both requirements: General elective and IDEA.

#### VI. International Experience

Students will be required to complete one international experience to graduate
with their iSchool undergraduate degree. Students can fulfill their
international requirement in one of the following ways:

  * Semester abroad
  * University exchange
  * Short term abroad program
  * International Internship
  * Coursework (6 credits from approved list)
  * Approved international component - by petition

#### Programs

**Major**

  * • Applied Data Analytics, BS
  * • Information Management and Technology, BS
  * • Innovation, Society and Technology, BS

**Minor**

  * • Applied Data Analytics Minor
  * • Information Management and Technology Minor
  * • IT Innovation, Design, and Startups Minor

  

* * *

![Print this page.](img/print.gif)Print this Page

Facebook this Page (opens a new window)

Tweet this Page (opens a new window)  
  
|  Global Search Catalog Search  
Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Schools and Colleges
Academic Rules Entire Catalog  
Search Keyword Field  
  
Whole Word/Phrase  
Advanced Search  
  
---  
  
* * *  
  
Catalog Navigation |  Catalog Home

* * *

General Information

* * *

Academic Rules

* * *

Undergraduate University Requirements Syracuse University's Shared
Competencies

* * *

Academic Offerings Other Programs Courses

* * *

School of Architecture College of Arts and Sciences School of Education
College of Engineering and Computer Science David B. Falk College of Sport and
Human Dynamics School of Information Studies Martin J. Whitman School of
Management Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs S.I. Newhouse
School of Public Communications College of Professional Studies College of
Visual and Performing Arts SUNY-ESF (Partner Institution)

* * *

Archived Catalogs  
---  
  
* * *  
  
All catalogs (C) 2024 Syracuse University. Powered by Modern Campus Catalog™. | 

