Skip to Content

#

|

##  Course Catalog

Office of the Registrar, 106 Steele Hall Syracuse, NY 13244 | (315) 443-2422

  * ﻿ Like Us on Facebook
  * ﻿ Follow Us on Twitter

  * Accessibility
  * Accreditation
  * Emergencies
  * Privacy

  
---  
2023-2024 Undergraduate Course Catalog Syracuse University |   
|  |  2023-2024 Undergraduate Course Catalog |  |  Select a Catalog 2024-2025 Undergraduate Course Catalog 2024-2025 Graduate Course Catalog 2023-2024 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2023-2024 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2022-2023 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2022-2023 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2014-2015 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2014-2015 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] |   
---|---  
|  Sep 19, 2024  |   
|  |  **HELP** 2023-2024 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]  

#  College of Professional Studies

![Print this page.](img/print.gif)Print this Page Facebook this Page (opens a
new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window)  
---  
  
* * *  
  
  * Academic Offerings
  * Faculty
  * Courses
  * About the College
  * Undergraduate Programs
  * Office of Pre-College Programs

|

  * Winterlude
  * Office of International Programs
  * English Language Institute
  * Arthur O. Eve HEOP
  * International Pathway Programs

  
---|---  
  
![](/mime/media/35/3741/Dean%20MichaelFrasciello.jpg)

Michael J. Frasciello, Dean  
700 University Ave.  
professionalstudies.syracuse.edu

### About the College

The College of Professional Studies is the home of part-time and professional
studies at Syracuse University. The College offers market-sensitive and
professionally focused online and on campus undergraduate degrees, graduate
degrees, credit certificates, and work-force ready alternative credentials,
such as badges, micro-credentials, non-credit certificates, and executive
education. The College also offers unique and innovative pre-college programs
for high school students, and language and cultural development programs for
matriculated and non-matriculated international students. Part-time commuter
undergraduate and graduate students attending Syracuse University schools and
colleges are supported by the College of Professional Studies' academic
administrative services team.

### Undergraduate Programs

#### Degrees

Part-time Syracuse University students earning an associate or bachelor's
degree may enroll for 11 or fewer credits each semester. Students have the
option of taking day, evening, online, or flexible format classes. Click here
for a complete listing of all degree programs available to part-time students.

College of Professional Studies' Bachelor of Professional Studies (BPS)
degrees are innovative, market-sensitive, career-focused programs available
online.

#### Certificates

College of Professional Studies undergraduate credit certificate programs are
available online. All undergraduate credit certificates are designed as an
interim stackable credentials toward degree completion and as stand-alone
certificates.

#### General Regulations

For academic rules and regulations applying to all University students, see
the Academic Rules section of this catalog, which also contains special
regulations that apply to College of Professional Studies students. The
regulations below apply to all students matriculated through the College of
Professional Studies for the Bachelor of Professional Studies degrees,
certificates and minors.

The College of Professional Studies participates in students' knowledge and
skill development through the Shared Competencies, Syracuse University's
institutional learning goals that highlight the knowledge and skills students
can expect to gain through their major courses and liberal arts requirements.

#### Minimum Requirements for Degree, Certificates and Minors

At least 120 credits of coursework are required for the BPS degrees. To be
eligible for graduation, BPS students must attain a minimum grade point
average (GPA) of 2.0 in courses taken at Syracuse University. Students must
earn a grade point average of at least 2.0 in courses counted toward
completion of their program of study.

#### Minimum Requirements for Certificate

At least 15 credits of coursework are required for the certificates. To be
eligible for graduation, certificate students must attain a minimum grade
point average (GPA) of 2.0 in courses taken at Syracuse University. Students
must earn a grade point average of at least 2.0 in courses counted toward
completion of their certificate.

#### Minimum Requirements for Minors

College of Professional Studies minors are open to all Syracuse University
undergraduate students in good standing. Minors require a minimum of 18 credit
hours, 12 of which must be in 300- to 400-level coursework. No courses may be
taken as pass/fail. Students must declare the minor no later than the first
semester of junior year. At least 12 upper division credits must be uniquely
counted toward the minor. The remaining 6 credits may be shared with the
major.

#### Declaring a Program of Study

BPS students must declare a program of study by the time they have reached
junior standing.

#### Prior Learning Assessment for Bachelor of Professional Studies

Under the guidelines of the Council for Adult and Experiential Learning
(CAEL), The College of Professional Studies recognizes that adult students may
bring with them transfer credits from accredited American colleges and
universities, credits from approved institutions in other countries,
performance in college-level or proficiency examinations and/or prior college-
level learning gained from work and life experiences.

A maximum of 30 credits from the combination of advanced credit, prior
learning assessment and/or credits earned through nontraditional programs may
be applied toward the number of credits required for graduation. These credits
may not be applied to the 30-credit residency requirement. A maximum of 12
transfer or other credits may be applied in the program of study.

Students must be matriculated in a BPS program to apply for prior learning
assessment by developing a portfolio of prior college-level learning that
identifies and documents the learning and how it applies to the individual's
degree program. Further information is available from Office of Online Student
Success, 315-443-3256.

#### Transfer Credit Policy

A maximum of 90 transfer credits will be accepted, of which a maximum of 66
credits may come from a two-year college and any combination of other credit
(e.g., AP exams, experiential learning). No more than three credit hours
earned in another college or university may be accepted to the credit
certificate program requirements.

#### Bachelor of Professional Studies

Associate dean: Ryan O. Williams, Associate Dean of Academic Affairs,
Professor of Practice, College of Professional Studies, rywillia@syr.edu

Program Questions, contact the College of Professional Studies at
315-443-9378, or email parttime@syr.edu

The College of Professional Studies provides part-time students with
personalized academic advising, financial aid, registration, and bursar
services. To find out how you can earn an SU degree part-time or to begin by
taking a course, attend an Information Session, call for an appointment with
an academic advisor (315-443-3261), or e-mail parttime@syr.edu.

### Office of Pre-College Programs

High school students can explore college majors and potential careers in
college-level courses at Syracuse University. In the Accelerated Semester
Online program, high school students can take 3-credit 8-week online courses
during the academic year. In the Summer College program, high school students
are immersed in the full college experience and can choose from 70+ credit and
noncredit courses in ten of Syracuse University's schools and colleges. For
more information, contact the Office of Pre-College Programs at 315-443-5000
or precollege@syr.edu, and visit https://precollege.syr.edu/.

### Winterlude****

Winterlude is a four-week session between fall and spring semesters. All
classes are delivered fully online. The Winterlude class schedule and
registration is available to students through MySlice.

### Office of International Programs

David Lind, Director  
700 University Avenue

### English Language Institute

English Language Institute (ELI) courses are designed for international
students and professionals who are interested in short-term or long-term study
to improve their English skills. This full-time intensive program is offered
through the College of Professional Studies. Five levels of Academic English
courses are offered. Many of the students have been conditionally admitted to
Syracuse University and need to increase their English proficiency before
enrolling in a degree program. Completion of the level 4 (high intermediate)
course will waive the university's TOEFL requirement for most undergraduate
and some graduate programs.

Highly qualified instructors, a great deal of personal attention and intensive
exposure to English language instruction enable students to make the necessary
progress. Enrollment is limited and admission is by application only. For more
information about the ELI, call 315-443-8571, email elimail@syr.edu, or visit
the website at eli.syr.edu.

### International Pathway Programs

The Office of International Programs offers alternative pathways into Syracuse
University for international students. The College of Professional Studies
leads the International Year One (iY-1) Program, for which qualified students
begin Syracuse University classes in their home countries, usually their
hometowns, taking credit-bearing courses, language lessons and culture, and
study skill modules from Syracuse University faculty and local teachers in
target countries. Classes will be taught in a hybrid format, with in person
classes in country and online classes with Syracuse University professors.
Upon successful completion of the program and requirements met, students
progress to the Syracuse University campus or other partner institutions in
the U.S. where they complete their undergraduate degree.

### Arthur O. Eve HEOP

The Arthur O. Eve Higher Education Opportunity Program (HEOP) for part-time
students, administered by the College of Professional Studies, is designed for
first-time college students and transfer students from other opportunity
programs. It provides academic and financial support for people of all ages
who, because of educational and economic circumstances, would otherwise be
unable to attend college. This is the only HEOP program for students who can
study on a part-time basis in New York State.

For more information on the HEOP program, call 315-443-3261 or visit the web
site.

#### Programs

**Major**

  * • Applied Data and Predictive Analytics, BPS
  * • Business Management, BPS
  * • Creative Leadership, BPS
  * • Cybersecurity Administration, BPS
  * • Healthcare Administration, BPS
  * • Interdisciplinary Studies, BPS
  * • Knowledge Management, BPS
  * • Liberal Arts, AA
  * • Liberal Studies, BA
  * • Policy Studies, BPS
  * • Project Management, BPS
  * • Studies in Computer Programming, BPS

**Minor**

  * • Cannabis Studies Minor
  * • Creative Leadership Minor
  * • Knowledge Management Minor
  * • Project Management Minor

**Certificate**

  * • Cannabis Studies Certificate
  * • Creative Leadership Certificate
  * • Cybersecurity Administration, Certificate
  * • eSport Gaming Certificate
  * • Full Stack Development Certificate
  * • Healthcare Administration Certificate
  * • Knowledge Management Certificate
  * • Mobile Application Development Certificate
  * • Project Management Certificate

  

* * *

![Print this page.](img/print.gif)Print this Page

Facebook this Page (opens a new window)

Tweet this Page (opens a new window)  
  
|  Global Search Catalog Search  
Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Schools and Colleges
Academic Rules Entire Catalog  
Search Keyword Field  
  
Whole Word/Phrase  
Advanced Search  
  
---  
  
* * *  
  
Catalog Navigation |  Catalog Home

* * *

General Information

* * *

Academic Rules

* * *

Undergraduate University Requirements Syracuse University's Shared
Competencies

* * *

Academic Offerings Other Programs Courses

* * *

School of Architecture College of Arts and Sciences School of Education
College of Engineering and Computer Science David B. Falk College of Sport and
Human Dynamics School of Information Studies Martin J. Whitman School of
Management Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs S.I. Newhouse
School of Public Communications College of Professional Studies College of
Visual and Performing Arts SUNY-ESF (Partner Institution)

* * *

Archived Catalogs  
---  
  
* * *  
  
All catalogs (C) 2024 Syracuse University. Powered by Modern Campus Catalog™. | 

