Skip to Content

#

|

##  Course Catalog

Office of the Registrar, 106 Steele Hall Syracuse, NY 13244 | (315) 443-2422

  * ﻿ Like Us on Facebook
  * ﻿ Follow Us on Twitter

  * Accessibility
  * Accreditation
  * Emergencies
  * Privacy

  
---  
2023-2024 Undergraduate Course Catalog Syracuse University |   
|  |  2023-2024 Undergraduate Course Catalog |  |  Select a Catalog 2024-2025 Undergraduate Course Catalog 2024-2025 Graduate Course Catalog 2023-2024 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2023-2024 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2022-2023 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2022-2023 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2014-2015 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2014-2015 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] |   
---|---  
|  Sep 19, 2024  |   
|  |  **HELP** 2023-2024 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]  

#  S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications

![Print this page.](img/print.gif)Print this Page Facebook this Page (opens a
new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window)  
---  
  
* * *  
  
  * Academic Offerings
  * Faculty
  * Courses
  * About the College
  * Shared Competencies
  * Accreditation

|

  * Educational Mission
  * Undergraduate Education
  * Facilities
  * Research Centers
  * Library Resources and Services

  
---|---  
  
![](/mime/media/35/4078/Mark%20Lodato%20photo.jpg)

Mark Lodato, Dean  
400 Newhouse I  
newhouse.syr.edu

### About the College

The S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications is widely regarded as one of
the nation's top schools of communications. Engaged in industry partnerships
and ongoing curricular development, the scope of the S.I. Newhouse School of
Public Communications reaches beyond the confines of the classroom. The school
prepares students and faculty alike to take a leadership role in addressing
the issues of today's rapidly changing media landscape.

The Newhouse School claims a distinguished faculty with a broad range of
expertise which is supplemented by visiting communications professionals,
regularly bringing new experiences to the classroom. Students study in a
modern, three-building complex, which houses multimedia labs, television and
photography studios, and sound production and recording facilities. Students
are supported in their professional development by the Tina Press and David
Rubin Career Development Center which serves students who are engaged in
public communications studies and helps them make professional connections and
find internships, as well as professional positions.
https://newhouse.syr.edu/students/career-development-center/. The Newhouse
School is an authorized certification partner with: Adobe, Apple, Avid and
Microsoft.

Upon graduation, students join the ranks of Newhouse alums, a large and robust
group of communications professionals influencing all aspects of the industry.
The Career Development Center encourages networking among alums and between
students and alums, supporting their continued involvement in the Newhouse
School.

The S.I. Newhouse School embraces every form of public communications offering
a rich variety of undergraduate and graduate programs. You'll find more
information about the graduate programs in the Graduate Course Catalog.

#### Undergraduate:

  * Advertising, BS
  * Broadcast and Digital Journalism, BS
  * Esports Communications & Management, BS (Joint with Falk)
  * Graphic Design, BS (Not admitting students) (not admitting students)
  * Magazine, News and Digital Journalism, BS
  * Public Relations, BS
  * Recording and Entertainment Industries, BS
  * Television, Radio and Film, BS
  * Visual Communications, BS

#### Graduate: Master's Level

  * Master of Arts in Advertising
  * Master of Arts in Arts Journalism and Communications
  * Master of Arts in Audio Arts
  * Master of Science in Broadcast and Digital Journalism
  * Master of Science in Communications
  * Master of Science in Communications Management
  * Master of Arts in Magazine, News, and Digital Journalism
  * Master of Arts in Media Studies
  * Master of Science in Multimedia, Photography and Design
  * Master of Science in Advanced Media Management
  * Master of Arts in Public Diplomacy and Global Communications
  * Master of Science in Public Relations
  * Master of Arts in Television, Radio and Film

#### Graduate: Doctoral Level

  * Ph.D. in Mass Communications

#### Minors

  * Photography, Video and Design Minor
  * Public Communications Studies Minor

### Shared Competencies

The S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications participates in students'
knowledge and skill development through the Shared Competencies, Syracuse
University's institutional learning goals that highlight the knowledge and
skills students can expect to gain through their major courses, liberal arts
requirements and co-curricular activities.

### Accreditation

The S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications is accredited by the
Accrediting Council on Education in Journalism and Mass Communications, and
the School is a member of the Association of Schools of Journalism and Mass
Communications.

### Educational Mission

The S. I. Newhouse School of Public Communications' mission is to educate
ethical, visionary communicators whose goal is to establish an open
marketplace of ideas guided by the First Amendment using contemporary
professional practices. In the course of earning their degree, students are
expected to achieve the following educational outcomes:

LAW: Apply the principles and laws of freedom of speech and press, in a global
and domestic context

HISTORY: Demonstrate an understanding of the multicultural history and role of
professionals and institutions in shaping communications

DIVERSITY: Demonstrate culturally proficient communication that empowers those
traditionally disenfranchised in society, especially as grounded in race,
ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation and ability, domestically and globally,
across communication and media contexts

VISUAL COMMUNICATIONS: Present images and information effectively and
creatively, using appropriate tools and technologies

WRITING: Write correctly and clearly in forms and styles appropriate for the
communications professions, audiences and purposes they serve

ETHICS: Demonstrate an understanding of professional ethical principles and
work ethically in pursuit of truth, accuracy, fairness and diversity

CRITICAL THINKING/RESEARCH: Apply critical thinking skills in conducting
research and evaluating information by methods appropriate to the
communications professions in which they work

USE OF NUMBERS: Effectively and correctly apply basic numerical and
statistical concepts

EVALUATION: Critically evaluate their own work and that of others for accuracy
and fairness, clarity, appropriate style and grammatical correctness

TECHNOLOGY: Apply tools and technologies appropriate for the communications
professions in which they work

### Undergraduate Education

Mark Lodato, Dean

#### Degree Program Overview

The S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications offers programs of study
that lead to the B.S. degree. Students enrolled in the dual program with the
College of Arts and Sciences are granted the degree appropriate to the arts
and sciences program of study, either the B.A. or the B.S. Students enrolled
in the dual program with the School of Management or with the School of
Information Studies also earn the B.S. degree. Dual programs are available to
all majors except the Bandier Program in Recording and Entertainment
Industries, and the Esports Communications & Management program, which is
already a cross-disciplinary program with course work in four different
colleges.

Professional coursework in communications may be taken in advertising;
broadcast and digital journalism; graphic design; magazine, news and digital
journalism; photography; public relations; recording and entertainment
industries; and television, radio and film, and visual communications.

Broad scholarship is stressed in all the programs to ensure that students
attain the background necessary for serving in leadership roles in public
communications.

All work prepared for classes in the school must be written electronically.
Students are encouraged to bring a computer to campus for use in word
processing, e-mail, web searches, and graphic, multimedia, video, and
photographic production and presentations.

Public communications students at Syracuse University, as at all accredited
schools of public communications, receive a broad education in completing
their degree requirements, devoting more than two-thirds of their study to
areas other than communications, and earning a minimum of 61 credits in the
liberal arts and sciences.

#### Graduation Requirements

For academic rules and regulations that apply to all Syracuse University
students, see the Academic Rules section of the Course Catalog, which also
contains special regulations that apply to all students matriculated in the
S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications. In addition, the following
rules and regulations apply to students in the S.I. Newhouse School of Public
Communications.

In addition to meeting all general University requirements for graduation,
students must complete a minimum of 122 credits of coursework, of which 32
must be taken in residence at Syracuse University. All students except those
in the Esports Communications & Management program must take a minimum of 39
credits in public communications courses. Esports Communications & Management
students must complete a minimum of 126 credits of coursework. These students
have a public communications core; maximum number of public communication
coursework depends on the track of study chosen. The maximum number of credits
in public communications coursework that Esports students can take is 42
credits.

#### Single Enrollment Graduation Requirements

Students who are singly enrolled in the Newhouse School of Public
Communications must satisfy the general requirements of the professional major
program they are pursuing. In addition, non-public communications requirements
assure a broad education, and a minor or an area of specialization provides
special competency in a selected field of study outside the School of Public
Communications.

Singly enrolled students must:

  1. Fulfill 61 credits in the College of Arts and Sciences
  2. Complete the following general skills requirements: 
     * one basic writing course from the following list: WRT 105 , WRT 109 or ENL 213 ;
     * two courses in foreign languages;
     * one course in quantitative skills from the following list: MAT 121 , MAT 183 , or MAT 221 ;
     * one additional skills course in foreign languages, quantitative skills, speech, or computer skills. Courses approved for this requirement include: any 3 to 4 credit foreign language course, ACC 151 , ACC 201 , CIS 252 , CPS 181 , CPS 196 , IST 195 , CRS 225 , CRS 325 , GEO 386 , MAS 261 , MAT 122 , MAT 221 , MAT 222 , MAX 201 , PSY 252 , SOC 318 , and SWK 361 ;
     * two writing intensive courses from an approved list. (See The Newhouse School Guidebook 2023-2024 for listing of writing intensive courses.)
  3. Complete the following divisional requirements: 
     * two courses (6 credits) in social sciences
     * two courses (6 credits) in humanities;
     * two courses (6 to 8 credits) in natural sciences and mathematics;
     * four additional courses (12 to 16 credits) from any of the three areas listed above.

All courses fulfilling divisional requirements must be from the Divisional
Lists included in the Newhouse School Guide Book 2023-2024. For updated
information, check with the Newhouse Advising Office, 315-443-4722,
nhadvise@syr.edu.

  4. Complete the requirements of one major plan of study in the Newhouse School of Public Communications. Up to 42 credits in Newhouse may be counted in the 122 credits needed for graduation.
  5. Complete a minor or an area of specialization comprising at least 18 credits in a school or college other than public communications. In most cases,12 of these credits must be in upper-division courses. This minor or area of specialization may include courses taken to fulfill requirements other than the major. A complete list of minors offered by Syracuse University can be found in the _Undergraduate Course Catalog _. The minors in Public Communications Studies and in Photography, Video and Design are intended for students who are not enrolled in the Newhouse School.
  6. Complete enough credits in electives to total 122 credits, which are required for graduation. For most Newhouse majors, these electives may be taken in any school or college within the University. No more than four credits may be in physical education. For students in the Bandier Program in Recording and Entertainment Industries, elective credits must be taken in the College of Arts and Sciences.
  7. In addition, all students must complete two university-wide required courses: First Year Seminar (FYS 101 ) and a 3-credit Inclusion, Diversity, Equity, and Accessibility course (IDEA). The IDEA requirement can be fulfilled by choosing one of the following Newhouse courses: COM 346 - Race, Gender, and the Media or COM 348 - Beauty and Diversity in Fashion Media or COM 350 - Topics in Media, Diversity and Inclusion .

#### Esports Media & Communication Graduation Requirements

Students who are enrolled in the joint Esports Media & Communications joint
major between the David B. Falk School of Sport and Human Dynamic and the S.I.
Newhouse School of Public Communications must satisfy the general requirements
listed below:

  1. Fulfill 63 credits in the College of Arts and Sciences
  2. Complete the following general skills requirements:

  * one basic writing course: WRT 105 ;
  * one course in public speaking: CRS 325 ;
  * two courses in foreign languages;
  * one course in humanities: ENG 156 ;
  * one course in humanities from the following list: ENG 319 , ENG 329 , ENG 339 , or ENG 379 ;
  * one course in natural science and mathematics. Esports Business & Management track students must take, MAT 284 . Esports Communications, and Esports Media & Design track students must take one natural science class with lab.
  * one course in quantitative skills from the following list: MAT 121 , or MAT 221 ;
  * three courses in social sciences. Approved courses that satisfy this requirement include: ECN 101 , ECN 102 , and MAX 132 .
  * twenty-two credits of Liberal Arts electives. Recommended courses include but are not limited to: HUM 141 , PHI 378 , PSY 205 and SOC 367 .
  * one university required course: FYS 101

##### Dual Enrollment Graduation Requirements

Students dually enrolled in the Newhouse School of Public Communications and
another school or college within the University must fulfill the degree
requirements of both schools. Upon graduating, they receive a bachelor's
degree (one diploma) conferred jointly by the two schools.

Formal dual programs of study are available in cooperation with the College of
Arts and Sciences , the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs , the
School of Information Studies , and the Martin J. Whitman School of Management
. These programs are available to all Newhouse majors with the exception of
the Bandier Program in Recording and Entertainment Industries since this major
is already cross-disciplinary in nature and requires courses from multiple
colleges.

#### Admission to Major Programs

Students must declare a major program of study before the end of the sophomore
year. Students majoring in photography, graphic design, or visual
communications may need a minimum of five semesters on Main Campus to complete
the major; other majors require a minimum of four semesters on Main Campus.
Admission to the creative track in advertising is based upon a student
receiving a grade of B+ or better in ADV 401 and upon a positive committee
review of a portfolio. Students are admitted to the Bandier Program in
Recording and Entertainment Industries and the Esports Communications &
Management program through the first-year application for admission to the
University. Entry into the major in Recording and Entertainment Industries and
the Esports Communications & Management program after a student has enrolled
in the University in a different major is dependent upon available seats.

#### Intra-University Transfer

Students may apply for internal transfer into all majors in the Newhouse
School; however, acceptance as an internal transfer does not guarantee access
to limited enrollment programs (i.e., Bandier and Esports). Admission is based
upon cumulative GPA, rigor of academic coursework taken at Syracuse
University, engagement on and off campus, a writing sample and performance in
two required courses. To transfer into the School of Public Communications
from another school or college of the University, the student must complete a
minimum of 30 graded (not P/F) credits at SU before they are eligible for
internal transfer. Students must also have earned a "B" or better in COM 107
(open to all students in the spring semester) and an approved writing course
which includes WRT 105 , WRT 109 , ENL 211 , or ENL 213 ,or an equivalent
course, with a "B" grade. (AP and IB credits with acceptable scores may also
fulfill this requirement.) In addition to completing the two required courses
with a "B" grade or higher, to apply for intra-university transfer, students
must submit: a writing assignment of no more than 500 words on a prompt to be
determined each semester; a resume; and the name of one reference. Interested
students must attend a Newhouse IUT information session, which are held
throughout each semester. A Schedule of IUT information sessions can be found
here- https://newhouse.syr.edu/admissions/undergraduate/transfer-applicants/.
Juniors (60+ credits completed) and seniors are ineligible to transfer.
Students wishing to major in photography, graphic design or visual
communications may need a minimum of five semesters on Main Campus to complete
this major. Students are admitted twice each year. Application deadlines are
November 1 for spring and April 1 for fall. Applications must be turned in to
316 Newhouse 3, the Newhouse Undergraduate Advising Office.

#### Transfer Credit

The Newhouse School accepts a maximum of 12 transfer credits in
communications. Transfer credit in communications must be judged applicable to
the student's major to be acceptable, in addition to meeting general
University criteria for transfer credit.

#### Study Abroad

London, a world center for communications, has a special appeal for public
communications students. Syracuse London offers courses in advertising,
communications law, television, radio and film, as well two courses on
diversity in the media, and special topic courses. The programs offered abroad
are intended for third-year students who have completed introductory courses.
The graphic design, photography, and visual communications majors allow for
study abroad in the spring of their junior year or fall of senior year.

Public communications students who participate in the London program may take
three or six credits in their major area of study. The balance of the academic
program consists of courses selected from other components of the program in
London, including Arts and Sciences and Management.

Also, through Syracuse Abroad, the Newhouse School of Public Communications
offers public communications courses in Madrid, Spain; and Strasbourg, France.
In addition, students in Madrid may select from courses offered in
anthropology, history, economics, political science, religion, psychology,
history of art, sociology, management, sport management, science, math,
Spanish language and literature, women's and gender studies, and Latin
American, Judaic, and Middle Eastern Studies. Those fluent in Spanish may do
part of their coursework at the Autónoma University of Madrid. In Strasbourg,
students may choose from courses in economics, history of art, French language
and literature, history, philosophy, political science, and religion. Those
fluent in French may do part of their coursework at the University of
Strasbourg.

Students who do not need to take a communications course during their semester
abroad also have the option of studying in Santiago, Chile; Florence, Italy;
and in fall semesters, Central Europe. Direct enrollment in foreign
universities and affiliated programs is available in multiple locations in
Africa, Asia, Australia, Europe, the Middle East, Latin America and the
Caribbean through Syracuse Abroad's World Partner offerings.

In addition to studying abroad during the fall or spring semesters, students
may also choose from a variety of summer programs offered through Syracuse
Abroad, as well as main campus courses which include a short-term abroad
experience as part of the course.

Further information can be found at http://suabroad.syr.edu, or contact
Syracuse Abroad, 106 Walnut Place, 315-443-3471, suabroad@syr.edu.

Newhouse DC

This one-semester Newhouse D.C. program offers a unique opportunity to pursue
your education and professional development in our nation's capital. You'll
gain hands-on professional experience as an intern at a top-level media
company, take classes, and build your network by engaging with accomplished
professionals, many of them alumni who hold top roles in the communications
industry. You will also meet industry professionals as part of your
coursework.

Your Newhouse DC experience will be built around registering for a flexible
12-15 credit experience consisting of a part- time 18-30-hour communications
industry practicum specific to your career interests and skillset, choosing
from an array of DC based course offerings at the Syracuse University
Institute for Democracy, Journalism, and Citizenship: as well as a variety of
online A&S classes.

For more information visit newhouse.syr.edu/dc or email NewhouseDC@syr.edu

Newhouse LA

Newhouse LA is an immersive professional development program that provides
students with the opportunity to work as interns at a Los Angeles media
company, while taking entertainment industry-related academic courses.
Students will be able to increase their knowledge base in the areas of film,
television, music, sports, and marketing. The program is offered during fall,
spring, and summer semesters and is open to juniors and seniors (rising
juniors and seniors for the summer semester) who have 60 credits completed;
are in good academic, judicial, and financial standing; and have approval from
their home college.

The fall & spring semesters are built around registering for a flexible 12-15
credit experience consisting of an 18-30-hour entertainment industry
practicum, LA based course offerings, master seminars, and online A&S classes.
The summer program is a slightly abbreviated academic version with students
registering for 6 credits.

More information can be found at https://newhouse.syr.edu/students/special-
opportunities/newhouse-la or contact NewhouseLA@syr.edu.

#### Newhouse NYC

Newhouse NYC provides students the opportunity to study for a semester in one
of the most vibrant media centers in the world. This one semester professional
development program is offered during the fall and spring semesters and open
to full-time juniors and seniors from all Newhouse majors and minors.

Your Newhouse NYC experience will be built around a part-time industry
practicum specific to your career interests and skillset. In the evenings, you
will take classes at the Fisher Center, Syracuse University's academic space
in midtown Manhattan. Additionally, throughout the semester, students will
engage with an extensive network of talented alumni and accomplished
professionals - many of whom occupy pivotal roles in the media industry. More
information can be found at https://newhouse.syr.edu/students/special-
opportunities/newhouse-nyc or by contacting NewhouseNYC@syr.edu.

### Facilities

The S.I. Newhouse School's buildings are known on campus as Newhouse 1, 2, and
3, which are capable of supporting internet applications, web conferencing,
presentations and advanced multimedia projects.

Newhouse 1 contains administrative offices; digital news writing and editing
laboratories with motion graphics, 3D animation, and research tools, such as
SPSS and NVivo. Newhouse 1 also houses multimedia laboratories supporting
digital imaging, video editing, and digital sound editing, an
advertising/public relations campaigns laboratory, and the Bill Glavin
Magazine Lab, a collaborative space for magazine writing and production. There
is a large professional photography studio equipped with Profoto D4 strobe
equipment and lighting attachments, as well as HDSLR cameras. Exhibition
spaces and the Steele Center, a portfolio prep environment with digital ink
jet printers are also located in this facility.

Newhouse 2 contains an extensive field-equipment facility (CAGE) that manages
the school's digital video cameras (HD and DSLR formats), lights, microphones,
and other production accessories. Post-production facilities include video
editing stations, a 16-channel, digital music-recording studio equipped with
Pro Tools© HD and 5.1 surround sound capabilities; a digital post-production
sound studio equipped with Pro Tools© HD; an extensive sound effects and music
collection; Full Adobe Creative Cloud© suite of software. The Newhouse School
is an AVID©, Adobe© and Microsoft© authorized training partner and offers
courses that lead to AVID©, Adobe© and Microsoft© certification. The facility
also has two radio news production labs, and writing labs equipped with the
broadcast newsroom software ENPS©. Several voice recording booths for
recording voice tracks for radio and television stories support the creation
of newscasts on multiple platforms. Students edit voice tracks using Adobe
Audition©.

Dick Clark Studios and Alan Gerry Innovation Center are located on the first
two floors of Newhouse 2. This five-studio complex is supported by three
control rooms, all equipped with state-of-the-art technology. Two large
soundstages and two smaller flex studios can be configured for a variety of
single and multicamera productions. The Broadcast and Digital Journalism
newsroom and studio feature a fully automated system for newscast labs that
integrate robotic cameras, graphic systems and digital video servers.
Technology includes Ross Vision© video switchers, XPression graphic systems,
Overdrive automation, SSL audio consoles, Ikegami© broadcast cameras, Imagine©
video servers, Avid Isis© storage, and Evertz© routing systems. Newhouse has
partnered with SU Athletics for the launch of the ACC Network in August of
2019. Fiber optic lines connect athletic venues, including the Carrier Dome,
to Newhouse 2 and ESPN headquarters in Bristol, CT. The facility in Newhouse 2
produces over 100 sporting events annually.

The Gerry Innovation Center encourages students to experiment with new
technologies including drones, large format interactive screens, Google
watches and glasses, 360° cameras, and technology which supports the creation
of virtual and augmented reality programming. The University's Orange
Television Network http://orangetvnetwork.syr.edu/ is also headquartered in
Newhouse 2.

Newhouse 3 houses a 300-seat auditorium; a collaborative media suite in which
students can build interactive web sites; executive education interactive
classrooms; student lounges; spaces for media-related student activities; and
a research center. A dining and social area connects all three buildings in
the center of the complex. A glass-enclosed bridge connecting Newhouse 1 and 2
provides a walkway with a winter garden setting for studying or socializing.

### Research Centers

#### Bleier Center for Television and Popular Culture

The. S.I. Newhouse School is the home of the Bleier Center for Television and
Popular Culture. Since 1997, the center has been overseeing the acquisition
and editing of an ongoing series of books published by Syracuse University
Press about television and other popular culture subjects, and maintaining a
large archive of original interviews with pioneers of American television, as
well as a collection of television scripts and production materials. The
center provides expertise to a wide variety of TV, radio, and print reporters.
On-campus activities include symposiums, guest lecturers, and weekly
screenings, all of which are open to the public. For further information
contact Robert Thompson, director, 315-443-4077, http://tvcenter.syr.edu/

#### Center for Digital Media Entrepreneurship

The Newhouse Center for Digital Media Entrepreneurship provides courses,
consulting, and connections to encourage Newhouse students to start businesses
and to identify new career opportunities in a fast-changing media industry.
The Center teaches digital media trends, business modeling, and the latest in
venture development. The work of the center is reinforced through one-on-one
coaching and supporting resources on- and off-campus including mentoring, team
development, assistance with legal matters, funding, technology and management
issues, and more. Through internships and events (such as South by Southwest
in Austin, and events with the start-up community in NYC), students are
exposed to digital media startups and the start-up culture. In promoting
digital media innovation and entrepreneurship, the Center also connects
students to alumni and others who are innovating and changing the media
industry. For further information contact Sean Branagan, director,
315-443-6310; email startups@syr.edu or visit http://www.newhousestartups.com/

#### Newhouse Sports Media Center

The Newhouse Sports Media Center builds upon the Newhouse School's long
history and strengths in sports communications. The Center provides courses
across the spectrum of media- courses such as, sports writing across
platforms, sports reporting, sports production, play-by-play announcing,
interviewing, as well as internship experiences to students in a variety of
fields. The Center fosters student and alumni interaction and academic-
industry partnerships. The Newhouse Sports Media Center sponsors special
events and frequent guest lecturers on current sports issues. Television,
Radio and Film Professor of Practice, Olivia Stomski, is the Center director.
For further information, visit: http://newhousesports.syr.edu/.

#### The Newhouse Center for Global Engagement

The Newhouse Center for Global Engagement is dedicated to creating
collaborative, ethical, globally-engaged students through experiential
learning, cross-disciplinary storytelling, fellowships, industry partnerships,
innovation and symposia. The center features the global work of Newhouse
students, faculty and staff while providing a hub for new initiatives and
partnerships. The center strives to bring the classroom into the world, and
the world into the classroom. Associate Professor Ken Harper is the center
director. For further information visit:
https://newhouse.syr.edu/centers/newhouse-center-for-global-engagement.

#### Tully Center for Free Speech

The. S.I. Newhouse School is the home of the Tully Center for Free Speech,
which educates students and the public about the value of free speech, free
press and the First Amendment. The Center annually presents the Free Speech
Award to a journalist who has faced significant turmoil in performing
journalism in the previous year. The Center sponsors educational programs and
conducts research related to media law and free speech, serves as a
clearinghouse on media law issues in New York State, and supports
interdisciplinary work on free speech topics at Syracuse University. For
further information contact Associate Professor Roy Gutterman, Director at
315-443-3523, http://tully.syr.edu/.

#### The Weiss Center for Social Commerce

The Weiss Center for Social Commerce was made possible in 2012 through the
generosity of Syracuse University alums, Jim and Audra Weiss '87\. Jim is
founder and CEO of Real Chemistry, a global health innovation company
headquartered in San Francisco with fifteen offices worldwide. The Center's
mission is to ensure SU students graduate with the cutting-edge skills needed
to address the convergence of communications with "big data," business
analytics, digital technology and social media in the emerging area of "social
commerce." Toward this end, the Center brings together marketing,
communications, and digital experts from the industry with faculty and
students; complements current course offerings with hands-on workshops and
case studies; involves students in applied research projects for clients; and
hosts internships at Real Chemistry and client offices across the United
States. For more information, visit http://socialcommerce.syr.edu/.

#### Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse (TRAC)

The Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse (TRAC) is a data gathering,
research and distribution organization affiliated with the Newhouse School and
with the Martin J. Whitman School of Management at Syracuse University. TRAC's
purpose is to provide the American people-and institutions of oversight such
as Congress, news organizations, public interest groups, businesses, scholars
and lawyers-with comprehensive information about the staffing, spending and
enforcement activities of the federal government. For more information, visit
http://trac.syr.edu/ or mail trac@syr.edu

### Library Resources and Services

Syracuse University Libraries support teaching, learning, and research at the
S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications by providing a wide array of
research support services, facilities, and on-site and online resources at
https://library.syracuse.edu.

Library collections in public communications cover advertising, broadcast and
digital journalism, print journalism, communication theory and research, law
of the press, public relations, printing, photography, film, and freelance
writing. Communications-related databases, accessible from any location on or
off campus, include Nexis Uni, Factiva, Simmons Insights, Statista, Media
Intelligence Center, PressReader, ProQuest Historical Newspapers, SCOLA, AP
Newsroom, Vanderbilt University's Television News Archive, JSTOR,
Communication Source, World Advertising Research Center, Mintel Reports,
Inside Intelligence eMarketer, Adforum, Adforum, ProQuest Dissertations &
Theses Global, Web of Science, Scopus, Sage Research Methods Online, and many
more. In addition, the library offers ebooks in the hundreds of thousands and
substantial collections of streaming videos and DVDs, sound recordings, media
trade magazines, collections of the memoirs of foreign correspondents; and
private papers of American news people, broadcasters, authors, and
cartoonists. All current students, faculty and staff also have access beyond
subscription paywalls to the platforms for the digital _New York Times_ ,
_Washington Post_ ,  _Wall Street Journal_ , _Syracuse.com_ , _Advertising
Age_ , and _The Chronicle of Higher Education_.

Physical facilities offer extensive hours, including 24-hour access most days,
open collaborative study areas, teaching and seminar spaces, quiet and silent
reading spaces, information technology loans, computer labs, reservable group
study rooms, a faculty commons, digital scholarship services, Pages Café,
events spaces for student, librarian or faculty use, a Center for Learning and
Student Success, Office of Undergraduate Research and Creative Engagement, a
Biblio Gallery for exhibition of student creative work and the Blackstone
Launchpad, a multidisciplinary center for entrepreneurship.

The Library's Special Collections Research Center (SCRC) collects the history
of American broadcasting. Notable acquisitions include the personal papers of
iconic broadcast journalist Ted Koppel, which includes near complete runs of
_Nightline_ and _The Koppel Report_. SCRC is also the repository for the
papers of several American columnists of national note William Safire, Drew
Pearson, Westbrook Pegler, George Sokolsky, Harold Ickes, Dorothy Thompson,
and Arthur Brisbane; an outstanding collection of prints, negatives, and
personal papers of noted photographer Margaret Bourke- White, as well as
personal papers, scripts, and audio-visual media of communications
personalities Norman Corwin, Mike Wallace, Dick Clark, Long John Nebel, and
Fulton Lewis Jr., as well as those involved in the business of television,
such as Ed Bleier. The SCRC also maintains an extensive archive of scripts,
videos, and personal papers in the field of television history, including
scripts and production notes from _NYPD Blue_ and _Party of Five_ ; scripts
and videotapes of _St. Elsewhere_ ; and interviews by critics Arthur Unger and
Steven H. Scheuer.

#### Programs

**Major**

  * • Advertising, BS
  * • Broadcast and Digital Journalism, BS
  * • Esports Communications & Management, BS
  * • Graphic Design, BS (Not admitting students)
  * • Magazine, News and Digital Journalism, BS
  * • Public Relations, BS
  * • Recording and Entertainment Industries, BS
  * • Television, Radio and Film, BS
  * • Visual Communications, BS

**Minor**

  * • Photography, Video and Design Minor
  * • Public Communications Studies Minor

  

* * *

![Print this page.](img/print.gif)Print this Page

Facebook this Page (opens a new window)

Tweet this Page (opens a new window)  
  
|  Global Search Catalog Search  
Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Schools and Colleges
Academic Rules Entire Catalog  
Search Keyword Field  
  
Whole Word/Phrase  
Advanced Search  
  
---  
  
* * *  
  
Catalog Navigation |  Catalog Home

* * *

General Information

* * *

Academic Rules

* * *

Undergraduate University Requirements Syracuse University's Shared
Competencies

* * *

Academic Offerings Other Programs Courses

* * *

School of Architecture College of Arts and Sciences School of Education
College of Engineering and Computer Science David B. Falk College of Sport and
Human Dynamics School of Information Studies Martin J. Whitman School of
Management Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs S.I. Newhouse
School of Public Communications College of Professional Studies College of
Visual and Performing Arts SUNY-ESF (Partner Institution)

* * *

Archived Catalogs  
---  
  
* * *  
  
All catalogs (C) 2024 Syracuse University. Powered by Modern Campus Catalog™. | 

