Skip to Content

#

|

##  Course Catalog

Office of the Registrar, 106 Steele Hall Syracuse, NY 13244 | (315) 443-2422

  * ﻿ Like Us on Facebook
  * ﻿ Follow Us on Twitter

  * Accessibility
  * Accreditation
  * Emergencies
  * Privacy

  
---  
2023-2024 Undergraduate Course Catalog Syracuse University |   
|  |  2023-2024 Undergraduate Course Catalog |  |  Select a Catalog 2024-2025 Undergraduate Course Catalog 2024-2025 Graduate Course Catalog 2023-2024 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2023-2024 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2022-2023 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2022-2023 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2014-2015 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2014-2015 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] |   
---|---  
|  Sep 19, 2024  |   
|  |  **HELP** 2023-2024 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]  

#  Martin J. Whitman School of Management

![Print this page.](img/print.gif)Print this Page Facebook this Page (opens a
new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window)  
---  
  
* * *  
  
  * Academic Offerings
  * Faculty
  * Courses
  * About the School
  * Educational Vision, Mission and Core Values
  * Undergraduate Education

|

  * Other Programs and Services
  * Minors in Management
  * Facilities
  * Research Centers & Institutes

  
---|---  
  
Alexander McKelvie, Interim
Dean![](/mime/media/35/5252/Dean%20McKelvie_Alex.jpg)  
721 University Avenue Suite 415  
whitman.syr.edu

### About the School

Welcome to the Whitman School of Management, a top-ranked business school with
a diverse faculty and strong focus on leadership building and community
engagement. At the Whitman School, students develop a strong business sense
across all aspects of management, providing them with the skills,
opportunities, and motivation necessary to compete in a global environment.

The Whitman School is a state-of-the-art business school in both programming
and facility, reflecting both Syracuse University's commitment and history of
innovative business education and the Whitman School's role as a cutting-edge,
experiential learning environment. The Whitman School continues to expand its
technological resources to provide services exclusive to our students, in the
form of equipment loans, device repair services, discounted printing,
discounted and/or free software, remote access to specially licensed software,
and lab environments that are updated regularly to reflect the technology that
supports the Whitman curriculum. In addition, Whitman is a certified
Certiport/Microsoft testing facility and encourages its students to become
Microsoft Office Specialist: Excel Certified. Students enrolled at Whitman get
the best of both worlds, enjoying the intimate and interconnected community of
the Whitman School with all the resources and opportunities of a world-class
research university.

The Whitman School of Management continues to be ranked among the nation's top
business programs. Whitman's entrepreneurship program has been ranked
nationwide by the United States Association for Small Business and
Entrepreneurship; Entrepreneur Magazine/The Princeton Review; Fortune Small
Business; and U.S. News & World Report. Many of Whitman's specialty programs
have been highly ranked by Bloomberg BusinessWeek, including accounting,
corporate strategy, entrepreneurship, operations management, sustainability,
business law, marketing management, and ethics.

#### Accreditation Information

The Whitman School has been accredited by the Association to Advance
Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB International) since 1920.

### Educational Vision, Mission and Core Values

**Common Purpose**  
We inspire students for a world of accelerating change.

**Vision**  
We aspire to be a pre-eminent and inclusive school of management that:

  * Prepares students for professional success, engaged citizenship, and lifelong learning;

  * Produces high-impact research that advances business and society.

**Mission**  
Whitman's mission is to develop analytic, globally-minded, innovative and
entrepreneurial leaders and professionals through the power of:

  * Transformative learning experiences;

  * Innovative ideas and high-impact research insights;

  * Collaborative networks of lifelong learning and discovery.

We strive to achieve our mission by:

  * Leveraging the breadth and richness of Syracuse University's schools and colleges;

  * Focusing on domains that benefit student learning and in which we can excel;

  * Engaging with our academic, alumni, and industry partners.

**Whitman 's Core Values:**  
**INTEGRITY** \- We are an ethical community that values transparency,
accountability, responsibility, respect and professionalism.  
**INCLUSION** \- We strive to be a student-centered community that is
supportive of all. We are open-minded. We engage and encourage diverse
backgrounds and viewpoints.  
**COLLABORATION** \- We believe the whole is greater than the sum of its
parts. We value teamwork as the most successful way to reach our goals.  
**INNOVATION** \- We are forward-thinking with a global mindset, always
exploring new and creative ideas that can bring positive changes to the world.  
**EXCELLENCE** \- We persevere, always challenging ourselves and each other to
improve in pursuit of outstanding quality in processes and outcomes, leading
to overall success.

### Undergraduate Education

The Martin J. Whitman School of Management offers nine programs leading to the
B.S. degree. They are in accounting, business analytics, entrepreneurship and
emerging enterprises, finance, management, marketing management, real estate,
retail management, and supply chain management. The school also offers dual
programs with arts & sciences, citizenship and public affairs, information
studies and public communications. Each of these programs is designed to be
completed within four years.

Each student is assigned a professional advisor who will guide them for the
entire program. Students select a major any time before the end of the second
semester of the sophomore year.

The Whitman School of Management fully supports and participates in students'
knowledge and skill development through Syracuse University's institutional
learning goals, the Shared Competencies. Through the Shared Competencies,
students can expect to learn how to integrate aspects from their major
courses, liberal arts requirements, and co-curricular activities. These are
invaluable skills that are applicable to business education and industry
practice.

In the course of earning their degree, students are expected to achieve the
following learning outcomes:

  1. Display competence in the functional areas of business and their interdependencies.
  2. Employ logical, analytical, and technological skills in decision making.
  3. Develop organizational strategies taking into account internal and external factors.
  4. Communicate and interact with others in a professional manner.
  5. Demonstrate exemplary personal and professional behaviors and apply knowledge in a selected area of study.
  6. Be aware of and engage in a diverse and global society.

#### General Regulations

For academic rules and regulations that apply to all University students, see
the Academic Rules section of this catalog. This annual publication also
contains special regulations that apply to all students matriculated in the
Whitman School.

The students, instructional staff, and administrators of the Whitman School
recognize that honesty, integrity, and respect for others are fundamental
expectations in the academic and business communities. The Whitman School
follows the Syracuse University Academic Integrity Policy and Procedures.

Additionally, all students who take courses in the Whitman School are required
to certify in writing that they have read, understand, and agree to comply
with this policy.  

# Whitman Bachelor of Science Degree Requirements

* * *

The B.S. degree, in any of the 9 areas available, requires at least 122
credits, distributed as indicated below. In addition, all students must
complete two university-wide required courses: First-year Seminar (FYS 101 )
and a 3-credit IDEA course, as well as global diversity, community engagement,
and internship requirements before graduating.

## University-wide Requirements

* * *

All incoming and transfer students are required to take a 1-credit FYS 101
course and a 3-credit IDEA course that can be selected from an approved list .

## Quantitative Skills

* * *

  * MAT 284 - Business Calculus *
  * MAS 261 - Introductory Statistics for Management
  * Science electives (astronomy, biology, chemistry, earth science, physics, or any physical science) 3 credits
  * BUA 345 - Business Analytics for Management Decisions

### Total Credits: 13

* * *

## Communication Skills

* * *

  * WRT 105 - WRT 105 - Studio 1: Practices of Academic Writing
  * WRT 205 - WRT 205 - Studio 2: Critical Research and Writing
  * WRT 307 - Advanced Writing Studio: Professional Writing

### Total Credits: 9

* * *

## Required Arts & Sciences Courses

* * *

  * ECN 101 - Introductory Microeconomics
  * PSY 205 - Foundations of Human Behavior
  *   * ECN 102 - Introductory Macroeconomics or
  * ECN 203 - Economic Ideas and Issues

### Total Credits: 9

* * *

## Arts & Science Electives

* * *

  * 27 credits taken through any subject offered by the College of Arts & Sciences. IDEA courses offered in the College of Arts & Sciences can be taken to fulfill the 3-credit IDEA course requirement. FYS 101 &nbsp;counts towards 1 required A&S elective credit.

### Total Credits: 27

* * *

## Introductory Core

* * *

In addition to management coursework taken within other skills areas, students
are required to complete the following coursework in the management core:

  * SOM 122 - Perspectives of Business and Management (fall only)
  * LPP 255 - Introduction to the Legal System
  * ACC 151 - Introduction to Financial Accounting
  * ACC 252 - Intro to Managerial Acc

### Integrated Core 1 (fall only)

* * *

  * FIN 256 - Principles of Finance
  * MAR 255 - Principles of Marketing
  * SCM 265 - Introduction to Supply Chain Management

### Integrated Core 2 (spring only)

* * *

  * MGT 247 - Introduction to Strategic Management
  * MGT 248 - Managing and Leading People in Organizations
  * SOM 354 - Managing in a Global Setting

### Senior Capstone

* * *

  * EEE 457 - Strategic and Entrepreneurial Management

### Total Credits: 31

* * *

## Major Field Specialization

* * *

  * All students, except those majoring in professional accounting, take 15 credits in the major area beyond core requirements. Students must contact an academic advisor in the chosen major field to discuss specific requirements.

### Total Credits: 15

* * *

## Business Elective

* * *

  * A business elective is any upper-division course in the Whitman School that gives credit but is not used to fill requirements in other groups. This course cannot be from the student's major area. IDEA courses offered in the Whitman School can be taken to fulfill the 3-credit IDEA course requirement.

### Total Credits: 3

* * *

## Free Electives

* * *

  * Students complete additional credits from any credit-bearing course with the following conditions: no more than 3 credits of physical education, health, or music ensemble may be used; and students may not take courses considered to have content that duplicates courses already taken. IDEA courses taken outside of the College of Arts & Sciences and the Whitman School can be taken to fulfill the 3-credit course requirement.

### Total Credits: 12

* * *

#### Global Diversity

Whitman students must have some form of global experience. For many students,
this is achieved through study abroad. Students may also fulfill the
requirement with the completion of two courses from the Global Diversity
Electives list (which may fulfill other course requirements for the degree).

#### Community Engagement

Students are required to apply their management skills and knowledge to
community problems. This is realized through a Community Service Project in
which 50 hours at a maximum of 2 organizations are completed throughout the
undergraduate experience. Services must be completed at a non-profit and
requires pre-approval from the Whitman Undergraduate Office. Service completed
through a Syracuse University organization requires pre-approval.

#### Internship

Students are required to have at least one internship after they acquire
junior standing. The internship should consist of 120 hours on-site, be a
natural extension of the classroom, and provide substantial opportunity for
knowledge attainment and skill development. Exposure to real job situations
related to the students major is required. The internship should be registered
in Handshake and approved by the Whitman Career Center prior to beginning.

#### Grading Policy

The faculty at the Whitman School developed a uniform grading policy for the
undergraduate program. The policy has three goals: (1) to ensure that grading
is fair and consistent across courses, (2) to encourage students to take their
coursework seriously, and (3) to ensure faculty deliver a challenging academic
experience.

The policy is as follows: For all undergraduate courses taken at the Whitman
School with 25 or more students enrolled, the mean grade shall be no higher
than 3.3 and the maximum percentage of A/A- is 33%.

Multiple sections taught by the same professor will be aggregated together to
calculate the mean grade and percentage of A/A- awarded. Deviations to the
above policy may occur depending on individual class performance.

### Other Programs and Services

#### Dual Programs

The Whitman School, in cooperation with other schools and colleges within the
University, offers dual programs that make it possible for students to pursue
two programs of study concurrently. Students in these programs are assigned an
advisor in each college.

Students enrolled in dual programs fulfill degree requirements in each school
and receive one degree (one diploma) jointly conferred by both schools. Dual
programs require more than 122 credits, normally required for graduation, but
can often be completed within four years. The Whitman School offers the
following dual programs with the College of Arts and Sciences specializing in
the Sciences and Math (minimum 142 credits), the Maxwell School of Citizenship
and Public Affairs with a major in International Relations (minimum 142
credits); the School of Information Studies (minimum of 141 credits); the S.I.
Newhouse School of Public Communications (minimum of 150 credits); and David
B. Falk College of Sport and Human Dynamics specializing in Public Health
(minimum of 152 credits or Sport Management (minimum of 148 credits).

#### 3+3 Joint Degree Program with the College of Law

The Whitman School has an established dual program with the College of Law to
complete the BS/JD in 6 years. This establishes an early admission opportunity
for outstanding Whitman students to complete three years of undergraduate
students before entering the first year of Law School. Conditional acceptances
are offered to incoming first-year students after admission to Whitman School.
Students must complete a minimum of 107 credits by the end of the 3rd year and
maintain a 3.3 GPA to be eligible for consideration with the conditional
acceptance. The LSAT is a required component for the Law School application
and applicants must meet the median score equivalent or higher than that of
the incoming College of Law students (most recently a 155). Students must also
demonstrate appropriate character and fitness for the study of law. Final
admissions decisions to the JD program are made by the College of Law.

Further information about dual programs can be obtained from the Office of
Undergraduate Programs, Whitman Suite 215.

#### Study Abroad

The Whitman School, in cooperation with Syracuse Abroad, offers students the
opportunity to participate in a program of study abroad in London, England;
Santiago, Chile; Madrid, Spain; Strasbourg, France; or Florence, Italy; during
the fall or spring semester. Students may choose from a variety of courses in
arts and sciences while developing sensitivity to cultural differences.

During the summer, students may participate in a variety of programs spanning
from 3 to 8 weeks.

Syracuse Abroad also partners with over 60 institutions in cities across the
globe to expand the locations and opportunities for students.

It is essential that students planning to study abroad contact the Office of
Undergraduate Programs, Whitman Suite 215 during their first or sophomore
year. Students interested in taking coursework in a foreign country must go
through a program that is recognized by the Syracuse Abroad Office. Students
may not take a leave of absence to study abroad with another institution with
the intent to earn academic credit.

For further information about study abroad, contact SU Abroad, 106 Walnut
Place.

#### **Intra-University Transfer**

Syracuse University students interested in an intra-University transfer into
the Whitman School must meet the intra-University transfer requirements. To be
considered eligible for transfer, students must have completed at least 30
credits at Syracuse University (two academic semesters), including two of the
following or their equivalents: MAT 221 , MAT 284 , and ECN 101 . Students are
admitted as space becomes available and considered based on the following
criteria: cumulative GPA, rigor of academic coursework taken at SU, engagement
on and off campus, and an optional professor recommendation. Whitman only
admits students for the fall semester - admissions decisions are made over the
summer. Students interested in transferring are required to attend an
Information Session (in person or virtual) and meet with an advisor in the
Whitman School's Office of Undergraduate Programs. All application
requirements must be completed by the last day of the finals of their freshmen
year, no summer coursework will be considered. Decisions will be made by a
committee over the summer and communicated to all applicants.

**Transfer Credit into the Whitman Program**

The Whitman School limits the total number of credits that can be accepted
after matriculation into the Whitman School. Once a student matriculates into
Whitman, only 12 additional credits can be taken outside Syracuse University
(with prior approval by an academic advisor) and transferred back to count
towards degree requirements. Additionally, all transfer coursework must be
taken through a US domestic institution. Coursework taken through an
International Institution will not be accepted after matriculation into the
Whitman Program.

#### **Minors Available to Management Students**

Students in the Whitman School are encouraged to pursue a minor offered by
other schools or colleges, and should seek assistance from their academic
advisor in choosing a minor that will enhance their academic program. With
careful and early planning, many minors can fit into the undergraduate
curriculum without a need for extra coursework. While management students are
allowed to pursue most minors offered outside the Whitman School, provided
that they have the appropriate prerequisites, they most often choose a minor
in economics, information management and technology, psychology, public
communication studies, or a foreign language.

### Minors in Management

Minor Coordinator: Erica Gromny  
215 Whitman School of Management  
315-443-2361 or whitmanadvising@syr.edu

The Whitman School offers several minors, allowing students to pursue either
business minor or a more specialized program that provides in-depth study in
one area of management. A minor in management can help students learn about
subjects that contribute to success in business, not-for-profit, and
government organizations. Knowledge in management is seen as beneficial by
many prospective employers.

The minors in Whitman are available to matriculated undergraduate students
from all Syracuse University schools and colleges other than the Whitman
School, provided that they have the permission of their home school or
college, a cumulative grade-point average (GPA) of at least 3.2 at the time of
application, and a minimum of four semesters on campus to complete the
requirements. 3.2 is the minimum GPA required for the minor, however decisions
are made on a space available basis. A student may declare a minor in:
Accounting , Business , Entrepreneurship and Emerging Enterprises , Finance ,
Marketing , Real Estate , Retail Management , and Strategic Management . The
details of each of the minor programs can be found under Academic Offerings.

There are two deadlines for submitting applications for management minors:
November 1 and April 1 of each academic year. Due to course sequencing and
enrollment limitations, students must have a minimum four semesters on campus
to complete the minor requirements. Any student wishing to apply for a
management minor after the spring of the sophomore year will be ineligible to
declare the minor due to space availability and course sequencing.

#### **To Declare a Minor in Management**

  1. Check with your home school or college office to make sure you have room in your program for the required courses. Also check that you have a cumulative GPA of at least 3.2.
  2. Complete the online minor application form on the Whitman minor webpage (keep in mind the April 1 and November 1 deadlines).
  3. Expect to hear a decision via email around the deadline date. If accepted, official declaration paperwork will be sent to the home college. They will approve the declaration and give you instructions about how to get the minor officially posted to your SU record.

#### **Management Interdisciplinary Minors**

The Whitman School has two minors in cooperation with another school/college
on campus. These minors are open to Whitman students in addition to non-
Whitman students and have separate minor declaration instructions than the
ones listed for "Minors for Management".

Engineering & Computer Science Management Minor - Offered in collaboration
with the College of Engineering and Computer Science. Please refer to the
official description on the ECS page .

Infrastructure Minor - Offered in collaboration with the College of
Engineering and Computer Science. Please refer to the official description on
the ECS page .

#### Transferring Courses into Minors in Management

All 18 credits must be taken through Syracuse University for a letter grade.
No transfer credit will be considered for the Management minor.

### Facilities

The Whitman School of Management's 160,000-square-foot sustainable building
opened in 2005, with a central focus on students and creating an environment
that promotes a culture of collegiality and a high-tech, world-class learning
experience. To provide that experience, the Whitman School creates an open
community atmosphere with advanced resources and team-oriented learning
spaces, including:

  * 22 classrooms
  * 200-seat auditorium
  * 20 team meeting rooms each for graduate and undergraduate students
  * three-story, 4000-square-foot Grand Hall
  * undergraduate and graduate computer clusters
  * 74 faculty offices
  * a faculty research center
  * an Investment Research Center
  * a center for entrepreneurial start-ups
  * a 100-seat cafe
  * a special-events room with outdoor terrace

The Whitman School of Management's building is dedicated to sustainability,
providing environmentally friendly resources and features for an enhanced
"green" experience.

### Research Centers & Institutes

The Whitman School building boasts many spaces for innovative and
collaborative research that provide experiential learning and prepare students
for careers across a broad range of business areas. Sophisticated software and
integrated technology coupled with advanced workshops and seminars create an
ideal learning atmosphere. Whitman's diverse research centers and institutes
include:

  * Africa Business Program
  * The Ballentine Investment Institute
  * The George E. Bennett Center for Tax Research
  * The Robert H. Brethen Operations Management Institute
  * The Michael J. Falcone Center for Entrepreneurship
  * The H. H. Franklin Center for Supply Chain Management
  * The Infrastructure Institute
  * The Institute for an Entrepreneurial Society
  * Goodman Leadership Center/Goodman IMPRESS Program
  * The Olivia and Walter Kiebach Center for International Business Studies
  * The James D. Kuhn Real Estate Center
  * The Harry E. Salzberg Memorial Program
  * The Earl V. Snyder Innovation Management Center
  * Sustainable Enterprise Partnership
  * Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse (TRAC)

​

#### Programs

**Major**

  * • Accounting, BS
  * • Business Analytics, BS
  * • Entrepreneurship and Emerging Enterprises, BS
  * • Finance, BS
  * • General Accounting, B.S.
  * • Management & Public Health, BS Dual
  * • Management & Sport Management Dual, BS
  * • Management, BS
  * • Marketing Management, BS
  * • Real Estate, BS
  * • Retail Management, BS
  * • Supply Chain Management, BS

**Minor**

  * • Accounting Minor
  * • Business Minor
  * • Entrepreneurship and Emerging Enterprises Minor
  * • Finance Minor
  * • Marketing Minor
  * • Real Estate Minor
  * • Retail Management Minor
  * • Strategic Management Minor

**Combined Degree**

  * • Aerospace Engineering/Business Administration (3-2 Program), BS/MBA
  * • Biomedical Engineering/Business Administration, BS/MBA
  * • Chemical Engineering/Business Administration (3-2 Program), BS/MBA
  * • Civil Engineering/Business Administration (3-2 Program), BS/MBA
  * • Computer Engineering/Business Administration (3-2 Program), BS/MBA
  * • Computer Science/Business Administration (3-2 Program), BS/MBA
  * • Electrical Engineering/Business Administration (3-2 Program), BS/MBA
  * • Environmental Engineering/Business Administration (3-2 Program), BS/MBA
  * • Mechanical Engineering/Business Administration (3-2 Program), BS/MBA

**Other Programs**

  * • Whitman Bachelor of Science Degree Requirements 

  

* * *

![Print this page.](img/print.gif)Print this Page

Facebook this Page (opens a new window)

Tweet this Page (opens a new window)  
  
|  Global Search Catalog Search  
Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Schools and Colleges
Academic Rules Entire Catalog  
Search Keyword Field  
  
Whole Word/Phrase  
Advanced Search  
  
---  
  
* * *  
  
Catalog Navigation |  Catalog Home

* * *

General Information

* * *

Academic Rules

* * *

Undergraduate University Requirements Syracuse University's Shared
Competencies

* * *

Academic Offerings Other Programs Courses

* * *

School of Architecture College of Arts and Sciences School of Education
College of Engineering and Computer Science David B. Falk College of Sport and
Human Dynamics School of Information Studies Martin J. Whitman School of
Management Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs S.I. Newhouse
School of Public Communications College of Professional Studies College of
Visual and Performing Arts SUNY-ESF (Partner Institution)

* * *

Archived Catalogs  
---  
  
* * *  
  
All catalogs (C) 2024 Syracuse University. Powered by Modern Campus Catalog™. | 

