Skip to Content

#

|

##  Course Catalog

Office of the Registrar, 106 Steele Hall Syracuse, NY 13244 | (315) 443-2422

  * ﻿ Like Us on Facebook
  * ﻿ Follow Us on Twitter

  * Accessibility
  * Accreditation
  * Emergencies
  * Privacy

  
---  
2023-2024 Graduate Course Catalog Syracuse University |   
|  |  2023-2024 Graduate Course Catalog |  |  Select a Catalog 2024-2025 Undergraduate Course Catalog 2024-2025 Graduate Course Catalog 2023-2024 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2023-2024 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2022-2023 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2022-2023 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2014-2015 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2014-2015 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] |   
---|---  
|  Sep 19, 2024  |   
|  |  **HELP** 2023-2024 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]  

#  College of Visual and Performing Arts

![Print this page.](img/print.gif)Print this Page Facebook this Page (opens a
new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window)  
---  
  
* * *  
  
  * Academic Offerings
  * Faculty
  * Courses
  * Academic Departments
  * About the College

|

  * Accreditation
  * General Regulations
  * Graduate Studies Information
  * Facilities
  * Research Centers and Institutes

  
---|---  
  
![](/mime/media/36/3740/Dean%20Tick.jpeg)

Michael Tick, Dean  
200 Crouse College  
http://vpa.syr.edu/

### About the College

The College of Visual and Performing Arts at Syracuse University is committed
to the education of cultural leaders who will engage and inspire audiences
through performance, visual art, design, scholarship, and commentary. The
college provides the tools for self-discovery and risk-taking in an
environment that thrives on critical thought and action

The College of Visual and Performing Arts is dedicated to nurturing the
creative and scholarly abilities of its students. The college, which is at the
center of the University's cultural life, is organized into five areas: the
School of Art , the Department of Creative Arts Therapy , the School of Design
, the Department of Film and Media Arts , Communication and Rhetorical Studies
and the Setnor School of Music . Recognizing the link between education,
understanding, and cultural knowledge, the College of Visual and Performing
Arts is also committed to providing sites for learning about diversity
throughout its curricula.

###  Accreditation

The college's programs in art, art therapy, design, and transmedia are
accredited by the National Association of Schools of Art and Design (NASAD).
In addition to NASAD accreditation, our environmental and interior design
program is also accredited with the Council for Interior Design Accreditation
(CIDA). The Setnor School of Music and its programs are accredited by the
National Association of Schools of Music (NASM). Programs in the Department of
Communication and Rhetorical Studies and the Department of Drama engage in
regularly scheduled Self-Studies involving programmatic review and site visits
by a panel of external reviewers from their respective disciplines.

### General Regulations

For academic rules and regulations that apply to all University students, see
the Academic Rules section of this catalog, which also contains special
regulations that apply to all undergraduate students matriculated in the
College of Visual and Performing Arts.

#### Fees

All students matriculated in a VPA major or minor are charged a program fee
that covers certain expenses such as applied music instruction, specialized
studio art supplies, dramatic productions, visiting artists, and equipment and
technology. Non-VPA students are charged an applied music fee for private
instruction and a per credit fee for other VPA courses. See the SU Tuition,
Fees and Related Policies bulletin for specific charges.

### Graduate Studies Information

Graduate students in the College of Visual and Performing Arts benefit from an
effective combination of studio, performance, and research activities. Faculty
advisors carefully establish the parameters of each graduate student's course
of study and advance and facilitate interdisciplinary study. The aesthetic
climate of the college supports and encourages the development of individual
potential. In addition, the college recognizes the link between education,
critical thinking, and cultural knowledge. Diversity and community are
emphasized as important elements of every student's program design.

The college's graduate programs attract students of superior intellectual and
creative ability from many distinguished institutions throughout the world.
The faculty is composed of professional artists, designers, musicians,
composers, actors, and scholars who are active and recognized in their fields.
In addition, the college is committed to maintaining a regular influx of
prominent visiting professionals.

#### Graduate Awards

##### Fellowships and Scholarships

Syracuse University provides University Graduate Fellowships on a competitive
basis. These provide a competitive stipend for nine months of full-time study
in addition to a tuition scholarship. See application materials for specific
deadlines.

##### Assistantships

The College of Visual and Performing Arts may offer a teaching, technical,
and/or administrative assistantship to qualified recipients, including first-
year students. Assistantships offer valuable opportunities for students to
enhance their professional credentials. Renewal of assistantships is based on
superior performance in coursework and in assistantship assignments.

##### Tuition Scholarships

In addition to fellowships and assistantships, tuition scholarships in varying
amounts are offered to outstanding students as evidenced by academic record
and merit.

##### Scholarships

The college has a limited number of small scholarships to support graduate
students. All scholarships are available to first-year students, and are based
on merit.

#### Graduate Good Standing Status

To be a graduate student in good standing, students must comply with the
Graduate Grading Standards, which consider passing grades as A, A-, B+, B, B-,
C+, C, and C-. The D grade is not an option for graduate students. The minimum
GPA for graduate work is 2.8 in the first 30 credits. Certification for an
advanced degree requires a minimum average of 3.0 for work comprising the
program for the degree and a 2.8 average for all credits earned. This
information can be found in the Academic Rules and Regulations section of this
catalog.

Specific programs in the College of Visual and Performing Arts can require the
passing of additional reviews, examinations, and assessments of graduate work
for a graduate student to be considered in good standing. Such reviews and
assessments can result in continuation without reservations, continuation
during a probationary period, or termination of student status. Students
should consult their advisor for policies specific to their program or area.

###  Facilities

The College of Visual and Performing Arts provides an extensive array of
facilities that support our academic programs, including:

**ART** \- extensive studio facilities in the Comstock Art Building on south
campus and the Shaffer Art Building and Smith Hall on main campus. These
facilities are supported by wood and metal shops. At the Comstock location, we
have five studio areas. The _Art Education_ facility includes studio and
classroom space. Our recently renovated _Ceramics_ facility includes a state-
of-the-art materials room, critique gallery, clay making room, mold/plaster
room, dry and wet glaze labs, a resource room, throwing studio/classroom,
sculpture studio/classroom, as well as indoor and outdoor kiln facilities
(Blaauw, Geil, Anagama, and others). The _Jewelry and Metalsmithing_ facility
includes a well-equipped main studio with individual work stations, small
machine and plating/anodizing rooms, plus casting, soldering, and finishing
equipment. The _Printmaking_ facility includes a 6,400 square foot studio
space, housing a wide range of relief, intaglio, lithography, and letter
presses, seriography/silkscreening capabilities, and hand papermaking
equipment. Our _Sculpture_ facility offers ample workspaces for assembly,
project spaces dedicated to installation and performance, gallery spaces for
student exhibitions, outdoor casting and large-scale fabrication capabilities,
and semi-private studio spaces for undergraduate students. Shaffer Art
Building houses two studio programs. The _Illustration_ facility includes
studio and classroom spaces, while the _Painting_ facility includes well-
lighted studios with special skylights receiving north light, and a complete
workshop. Finally, Smith Hall serves as the College's graduate and
multidisciplinary hub as well and home to various functions of the Schools of
Art and Design and Communication and Rhetorical Studies Department.

**DESIGN** \- Our Design programs are housed in The Nancy Cantor Warehouse,
Syracuse University's seven-floor building in downtown Syracuse. The
Warehouse's open, industrial space was recently renovated to contain
professional studio facilities for each design program; two shared computer
labs; a printing lab; and Design Works, a fabrication lab. A student lounge,
café, and gallery are conveniently located on the first floor.

**FILM AND MEDIA ARTS** \- Facilities supporting the Department of Film and
Media Arts are located in the lower level of Shaffer Art Building. Art
Photography students have access to digital and analog facilities, including
professional scanning and digital printing equipment, and can also utilize
production facilities at _Light Work_ as well as our own studios and
classrooms. The range of facilities ensures easy access to professional
digital, analog, and lighting equipment, including large format ink-jet
printers and a 44-inch color processor. Computer art facilities include a
graduate studio, an advanced audio production and scanning studio, and a main
computer lab. Art Video sports a multi-use, multi-format facility, in which
production is executed with mini-DV camcorders, digital audio recorders, and
necessary peripherals. Post-production suites are equipped with Macintosh-
based non-linear editing systems. Video projectors are available for
presentations and exhibition. There are digital, multi-track audio studios,
plus access to other Syracuse University facilities to complement production,
post-production and exhibition activities. The Film Art production facilities
include sync-sound camera/recorder packages: Aaton Super 16, Arriflex Super 16
and regular 16, CP16, non-sync Bolex cameras, SONY and PANASONIC DV and HDV
video cameras; a broad array of location lighting and grip gear; Final Cut Pro
non-linear editing stations equipped for HD editing; Steenback flatbed
editors; a sound mix studio; an Oxberry animation studio; and a lighting
studio.

**MUSIC** \- The Setnor School of Music, located in Crouse College, is home to
the acoustically rich, 700-seat Rose and Jules R. Setnor Auditorium, with its
3,823-pipe Holtkamp Organ. Approximately 200 recitals occur in this space each
academic year. The school has classrooms and rehearsal spaces in Crouse
College and Shaffer Art Building, as well as a recording studio in the Belfer
Audio Archives.

**COMMUNICATION and RHETORICAL STUDIES** \- located in recently renovated
space in Sims Hall, the department's facilities include classrooms designed
for video capture and replay of student speech-making, along with multi-
purpose room for hosting meetings and events.

### Research Centers and Institutes

The College of Visual and Performing Arts supports and celebrates a culture of
research. Both faculty and students across departments and programs engage in
a variety of individual, group and cross-disciplinary initiatives that seek to
expand human knowledge through creative analysis, innovation, and insight.
These efforts are disseminated in a variety of ways including publishing,
presentations, exhibitions and performances. The College's Office of Research
and Graduate Studies facilitates both internal and external funding to support
these efforts and the colleges' mission of providing an environment that
thrives on critical thought and action.

### Communication and Rhetorical Studies

Go to information for this department.  

#### Programs

**Master 's**

  * • Communication and Rhetorical Studies, MA

### Department of Film and Media Arts

Go to information for this department.  

#### Programs

**Master 's**

  * • Art Photography, MFA
  * • Computer Art, MFA
  * • Film, MFA

### School of Art

Go to information for this department.  

#### Programs

**Master 's**

  * • Illustration, MFA
  * • Studio Arts, MFA

### School of Design

Go to information for this department.  

#### Programs

**Master 's**

  * • Design, MFA
  * • Museum Studies, MA

### Setnor School of Music

Go to information for this department.  

#### Programs

**Master 's**

  * • Audio Arts, MA
  * • Conducting, MMus
  * • Music Composition, MMus
  * • Performance, MM
  * • Voice Pedagogy, MMus

### Department of Creative Arts Therapy

Go to information for this department.  

#### Programs

**Master 's**

  * • Art Therapy, MS

  

* * *

![Print this page.](img/print.gif)Print this Page

Facebook this Page (opens a new window)

Tweet this Page (opens a new window)  
  
|  Global Search Catalog Search  
Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Schools and Colleges
Academic Rules Entire Catalog  
Search Keyword Field  
  
Whole Word/Phrase  
Advanced Search  
  
---  
  
* * *  
  
Catalog Navigation |  Catalog Home

* * *

General Information

* * *

Academic Rules

* * *

Academic Offerings Other Programs Courses

* * *

School of Architecture College of Arts and Sciences School of Education
College of Engineering and Computer Science David B. Falk College of Sport and
Human Dynamics School of Information Studies College of Law Martin J. Whitman
School of Management Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs S.I.
Newhouse School of Public Communications College of Professional Studies
College of Visual and Performing Arts SUNY-ESF (Partner Institution)

* * *

Archived Catalogs  
---  
  
* * *  
  
All catalogs (C) 2024 Syracuse University. Powered by Modern Campus Catalog™. | 

