Skip to Content

#

|

##  Course Catalog

Office of the Registrar, 106 Steele Hall Syracuse, NY 13244 | (315) 443-2422

  * ﻿ Like Us on Facebook
  * ﻿ Follow Us on Twitter

  * Accessibility
  * Accreditation
  * Emergencies
  * Privacy

  
---  
2023-2024 Graduate Course Catalog Syracuse University |   
|  |  2023-2024 Graduate Course Catalog |  |  Select a Catalog 2024-2025 Undergraduate Course Catalog 2024-2025 Graduate Course Catalog 2023-2024 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2023-2024 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2022-2023 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2022-2023 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2014-2015 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2014-2015 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] |   
---|---  
|  Sep 19, 2024  |   
|  |  **HELP** 2023-2024 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]  

#  S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications

![Print this page.](img/print.gif)Print this Page Facebook this Page (opens a
new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window)  
---  
  
* * *  
  
  * Academic Offerings
  * Faculty
  * Courses
  * Shared Competencies
  * About the College
  * Educational Mission
  * Accreditation

|

  * Graduate Education
  * Facilities
  * Research Centers
  * Library Resources and Services

  
---|---  
  
![](/mime/media/36/4079/Mark%20Lodato%20photo.jpg)

Mark Lodato, Dean  
400 Newhouse I  
newhouse.syr.edu

### About the College

The S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications is widely regarded as one of
the nation's top schools of communications. Engaged in industry partnerships
and ongoing curricular development, the scope of the S.I. Newhouse School of
Public Communications reaches beyond the confines of the classroom. The school
prepares students and faculty alike to take a leadership role in addressing
the issues of today's rapidly changing media landscape.

The Newhouse School claims a distinguished faculty with a broad range of
expertise which is supplemented by visiting communications professionals,
regularly bringing new experiences to the classroom. Students study in a
modern, three-building complex, which houses multimedia labs, television and
photography studios, and sound production and recording facilities. Students
are supported in their professional development by the Tina Press and David
Rubin Career Development Center which serves students who are engaged in
public communications studies and helps them make professional connections and
find internships, as well as professional positions.
https://newhouse.syr.edu/students/career-development-center/. The Newhouse
School is an authorized certification partner with: Adobe, Apple, Avid and
Microsoft.

The Newhouse School is an authorized certification partner with: Adobe, Apple,
Avid and Microsoft. Upon graduation, students join the ranks of Newhouse
alums, a large and robust group of communications professionals influencing
all aspects of the industry. The Career Development Center encourages
networking among alums and between students and alums, supporting their
continued involvement in the Newhouse School.

The S.I. Newhouse School embraces every form of public communications offering
a rich variety of undergraduate and graduate programs:

**Undergraduate:**

  * Bachelor of Science in Advertising
  * Bachelor of Science in Broadcast and Digital Journalism
  * Bachelor of Science in Esports Communications & Management (Joint major with Falk)
  * Bachelor of Science in Graphic Design (Not admitting students)
  * Bachelor of Science in Magazine, News and Digital Journalism
  * Bachelor of Science in Public Relations
  * Bachelor of Science in Recording and Entertainment Industries (Bandier Program)
  * Bachelor of Science in Television, Radio and Film
  * Bachelor of Science in Visual Communications

**Graduate: Master 's Level**

  * Advertising, MA
  * Arts Journalism and Communications, MA
  * Audio Arts, MA
  * Broadcast and Digital Journalism, MS
  * Communications, MS
  * Communications Management, MS
  * Magazine, News and Digital Journalism, MA
  * Media Studies, MA
  * Multimedia, Photography and Design, MS
  * Advanced Media Management, MS
  * Public Diplomacy and Global Communications, MA
  * Public Relations, MS
  * Television, Radio and Film, MA

**Graduate: Doctoral Level**

  * Mass Communications, PhD

**Minors**

  * Photography, Video and Design
  * Public Communications Studies

### Shared Competencies

The S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications participates in students'
knowledge and skill development through the Shared Competencies, Syracuse
University's institutional learning goals that highlight the knowledge and
skills students can expect to gain through their major courses, liberal arts
requirements and co-curricular activities.

### Accreditation

The S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications is accredited by the
Accrediting Council on Education in Journalism and Mass Communications, and
the School is a member of the Association of Schools of Journalism and Mass
Communications.

### Educational Mission

The S. I. Newhouse School of Public Communications' mission is to educate
ethical, visionary communicators whose goal is to establish an open
marketplace of ideas guided by the First Amendment using contemporary
professional practices. In the course of earning their degree, students are
expected to achieve the following educational outcomes:

LAW: Apply the principles and laws of freedom of speech and press, in a global
and domestic context

HISTORY: Demonstrate an understanding of the multicultural history and role of
professionals and institutions in shaping communications

DIVERSITY: Demonstrate culturally proficient communication that empowers those
traditionally disenfranchised in society, especially as grounded in race,
ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation and ability, domestically and globally,
across communication and media contexts

VISUAL COMMUNICATIONS: Present images and information effectively and
creatively, using appropriate tools and technologies

WRITING: Write correctly and clearly in forms and styles appropriate for the
communications professions, audiences and purposes they serve

ETHICS: Demonstrate an understanding of professional ethical principles and
work ethically in pursuit of truth, accuracy, fairness and diversity

CRITICAL THINKING/RESEARCH: Apply critical thinking skills in conducting
research and evaluating information by methods appropriate to the
communications professions in which they work

USE OF NUMBERS: Effectively and correctly apply basic numerical and
statistical concepts

EVALUATION: Critically evaluate their own work and that of others for accuracy
and fairness, clarity, appropriate style and grammatical correctness

TECHNOLOGY: Apply tools and technologies appropriate for the communications
professions in which they work

CONTRIBUTE TO KNOWLEDGE: Contribute to knowledge appropriate to the
communications professions in which they work

### Graduate Education

Mark Lodato, Dean  
Joel K. Kaplan, Associate Dean for Professional Graduate Studies  
Anne Osborne, Director of Doctoral Studies

The S. I. Newhouse School of Public Communications offers master's degree
programs in advanced media management; advertising; arts journalism and
communications; broadcast and digital journalism; magazine, news and digital
journalism; multimedia, photography and design; public relations; and
television, radio and film. Audio arts is a combined degree program offered
from the Newhouse School and the College of Visual and Performing Arts. We
also offer a combined degree program from the Newhouse School and the Maxwell
School of Citizenship and Public Affairs in public diplomacy and global
communications. In addition to these residential programs, the Newhouse School
offers online master's programs in communications with tracks in journalism
innovation, media management, and strategic communication, and mid-career
level master's degree in communications management.

In addition to the professional master's degree programs, the School offers a
research-based master's degree program in media studies.

At the doctoral level, the mass communications program is designed for
advanced study in research, analysis of public communications, and teaching.

For a complete listing of faculty members associated with the Newhouse School,
see the Faculty section of the Graduate Course Catalog.

### Admission

#### **Master 's Degree Programs**

We welcome candidates from a wide variety of academic disciplines and
backgrounds to apply to our master's degree programs. Candidates with
bachelor's degrees from accredited colleges or universities are eligible for
admission. No prior academic or professional experience in communications is
required.

Our on-campus professional programs begin in the summer only. Media studies
begins in the fall only. Our online communications and communications
management programs offer four start-terms per year.

In addition to the master's degree programs described above, the School offers
dual-degree options with the College of Law.

#### **Doctoral Program**

Only students with outstanding records will be considered for the Mass
Communications doctoral program. A candidate must be a graduate of an
accredited college or university and have a master's degree or equivalent in
communications or a field considered appropriate by the school's committee on
graduate programs. Inquiries about the doctoral program should be directed to
the Director of Doctoral Studies, Newhouse School of Public Communications,
masscomm@syr.edu, 315-443-7358.

The Newhouse School funds five new doctoral students each year and is rooted
in the social and behavioral sciences. The Ph.D. in Mass Communications is
intended to be an interdisciplinary degree, with doctoral students taking a
series of classes outside of the Newhouse School and developing at least one
outside area of expertise. In developing an outside area of expertise, the
student may draw on a wide variety of faculty in other schools at the
University.

The purpose of the program is to train doctoral students to be scholars who
are capable of conducting original research, creating new knowledge, and
disseminating it through publications and teaching. Most graduates will leave
the program to take faculty positions in journalism, mass communication,
public relations, and other communication units in colleges and universities
around the world; some will pursue careers that serve the needs of
communications organizations or research organizations.

Our four-year, fully funded program is meant to help students develop their
scholarly skills and abilities to the fullest. While there are a wide range of
opportunities (such as teaching, research, service, travel, working with
faculty), our focus is to make doctoral coursework as enriching as possible,
and dissertation research of the highest caliber worthy of peer-reviewed
publication. It is this educational experience that will prepare students most
successfully for the careers ahead. We pride ourselves on the fact that our
faculty work closely with our Ph.D. students to identify their professional
goals as well as collaborate on research projects.

The Newhouse School believes that academic success is grounded in student
well-being, community, collaboration, and inclusion, diversity, equity, and
accessibility. We share the perspective that the whole person is part of a
holistic ecosystem, incorporating both individual experience, knowledge, and
perspective focusing on research, teaching, and service.

**Assistantship Requirements**

Students are accepted into the Ph.D. program on an assistantship. As part of
the assistantship, students will dedicate 20 hours per week to an amalgamation
of research, teaching, and academic service.

**Research**

You will engage in research and publication activities with faculty throughout
the program duration. A solid publications and presentations record will help
in a student's pursuit of academic and research job opportunities available
upon graduation.

**Teaching**

To develop as an academic, students may have the opportunity to teach within
the Newhouse School. They will develop the skills needed to succeed in the
classroom by taking part in Syracuse University's Future Professoriate
Program, a structured professional development experience designed to prepare
our Ph.D. students for life as a faculty member.

**Academic Service**

Students are expected to provide academic service to the school only to the
extent that it furthers their academic progress and does not interfere with
meeting program requirements. Those fully funded by Newhouse will provide 20
hours a week of research assistantship (RA) or teaching assistantship (TA) or
an amalgamation of RA/TA whereby you will help faculty conduct research and/or
teach. Additional service duties may include reviewing research papers,
assisting with school/department-hosted professional meetings, helping to host
guest research scholars, Newhouse Symposium, etc.

#### Graduate Awards

##### Newhouse Foundation Fellowship/Internship for Minorities

Established in 1993, these awards are made annually to two minority students
who wish to enroll in the Magazine, News, and Digital Journalism Master's
program to pursue a newspaper career. Preference is given to students who have
majored in subjects other than journalism. Funded by the Newhouse Foundation,
each award provides free tuition and a monthly stipend for 18 months of study
(during which time the student also works as a reporting intern at the Advance
Media New York).

##### Doctoral Awards

The Newhouse School funds up to five new doctoral students each year who help
support research and/or the teaching of undergraduate classes.

##### Dean's Multicultural Scholarships

Established in 2003, these awards are designated for outstanding applicants
who demonstrate financial need, have a background and/or interest in
multicultural communications, and demonstrate a career interest related to
multicultural communications. Such background interest might be indicated by
undergraduate study abroad, an undergraduate major in a foreign language,
and/or communications work experience in a non-U.S. setting.

##### Instructional Associates

The Newhouse School has a number of instructional associates (IA) who spend 10
to 20 hours per week helping faculty members with classes or labs. They are
paid per hour and receive tuition scholarships (usually 7.5 credits per
semester). Some positions are just for one semester, and others are for the
academic year; the appointments depend upon what courses are being taught for
a particular semester. IAs assist with classes by leading discussion sessions,
helping with grading and meeting with students during office hours. Some also
work in labs, helping undergraduate students with specialized equipment.

### Online Education

##### Master of Science in Communications

The online masters in communications program prepares media professionals to
succeed in today's world of mass media and digital communications. With
classes created and taught by Newhouse faculty, the master's in communications
offers students around the world the opportunity to receive the highest
quality education without relocating. Students can start their degree in
January, April, July or October. The program is intended for students with
bachelor's degrees and/or backgrounds in media and communications, journalism,
public relations, advertising, media business management, and related fields.
Students may choose from four secondary focus tracks: Advertising, Journalism
Innovation, Media Management and Public Relations.

There are two required immersions which take place Friday through Sunday in
various locations. (Past immersions have been in Syracuse, New York City, Los
Angeles and Costa Rica.) During the immersion, students come together to learn
from professionals in the field, interact with their classmates and faculty,
network with Newhouse alumni and work together on a case study on a specific
topic. This program is designed to be completed in as little as 15 months.

##### Master of Science in Communications Management

The master's degree program in communications management is for experienced
communications professionals who seek to equip themselves with managerial or
leadership roles. Since 1995, this program has combined courses in strategic
communications, business management and leadership to prepare hundreds of
successful graduates now leading communications in corporate, agency, not-for-
profit, NGO and consulting sectors, and in other practice areas around the
world.

This interdisciplinary program delivers  the fusion of the knowledge, skills
and abilities needed for career advancement in the rapidly evolving
communications profession, which continues to change due to digital and social
media advancements.  The 36-credits master's in communications management can
be earned in 18 months through a flexible online format that accommodates
professionals working full-time.

For more information contact the director, Anthony D'Angelo, at
dangeloa@syr.edu or at 315-443-3368.

### Facilities

The S.I. Newhouse School's buildings are known on campus as Newhouse 1, 2, and
3; which are capable of supporting current curricular needs including: web
conferencing, presentations, web development and advanced multimedia projects.

Newhouse 1 contains administrative offices; digital news writing and editing
laboratories with motion graphics, 3D animation, and research tools, such as
SPSS and NVivo. Newhouse 1 also houses multimedia laboratories supporting
digital imaging, video editing, digital sound editing, an advertising/public
relations campaigns laboratory, and the Bill Glavin Magazine Lab, a
collaborative space for magazine writing and production. There is a large
professional photography studio equipped with Profoto D4 strobe equipment and
lighting attachments, as well as HDSLR cameras. Exhibition spaces and the
Steele Center, a portfolio prep environment with digital ink jet printers are
also located in this facility.

Newhouse 2 contains an extensive field-equipment facility (CAGE) that manages
the school's digital video cameras (HD and DSLR formats), lights, microphones,
and other production accessories. Post-production facilities include video
editing stations, a 16-channel, digital music-recording studio equipped with
Pro Tools© HD and 5.1 surround sound capabilities;  a digital post-production
sound studio equipped with Pro Tools© HD; an extensive sound effects and music
collection; Full Adobe Creative Cloud© suite of software. The Newhouse School
is an AVID©, Adobe© and Microsoft© authorized training partner and offers
courses that lead to AVID©, Adobe© and Microsoft© certification. The facility
also two radio news production labs, and writing labs equipped with the
broadcast newsroom software ENPS©. Several voice recording booths for
recording voice tracks for radio and television stories support the creation
of newscasts on multiple platforms. Students edit voice tracks using Adobe
Audition©.

The Dick Clark Studios and Alan Gerry Innovation Center are located on the
first two floors of Newhouse 2. This five- studio complex is supported by
three control rooms,  equipped with state-of-the-art technology. Two large
soundstages and two smaller flex studios can be configured for a variety of
single and multicamera productions. The broadcast and digital journalism
newsroom and studio feature a fully automated system for newscast labs that
integrate robotic cameras, graphic systems and digital video servers.
Technology includes Ross Vision© video switchers, XPression graphic systems,
Overdrive automation, SSL audio consoles, Ikegami© broadcast cameras, Imagine©
video servers, Avid Isis© storage, and Evertz© routing systems. Newhouse has
partnered with SU Athletics with the launch of the ACC Network in 2019. Fiber
optic lines connect athletic venues, including the Carrier Dome to Newhouse 2
and ESPN headquarters in Bristol, CT. The facility in Newhouse 2 produces over
100 live sporting events annually.

The Gerry Innovation Center encourages students to experiment with new
technologies including drones, large interactive screens, 360° cameras, and
technology which supports the creation of virtual and augmented reality
programming.  The University's Orange Television Network
http://orangetv.syr.edu/ is also headquartered in Newhouse 2. Newhouse has
partnered with SU Athletics for the launch of the ACC Network in 2019. Fiber
optic lines connect athletic venues, including the Carrier Dome, to Newhouse 2
and ESPN headquarters in Bristol, CT. The facility in Newhouse 2 will be used
to produce over 100 live sporting events annually.

Newhouse 3 houses a 300-seat auditorium; a collaborative media suite in which
students can build interactive content; executive education interactive
classrooms; student lounges; spaces for media-related student activities; and
a research center. A dining and social area connects all three buildings in
the center of the complex. A glass-enclosed bridge connecting Newhouse 1 and 2
provides a walkway with a winter garden setting for studying or socializing.

### Research Centers

#### Bleier Center for Television and Popular Culture

The. S.I. Newhouse School is the home of the Bleier Center for Television and
Popular Culture. Since 1997, the center has been overseeing the acquisition
and editing of an ongoing series of books published by Syracuse University
Press about television and other popular culture subjects, and maintaining a
large archive of original interviews with pioneers of American television, as
well as a collection of television scripts and production materials. The
center provides expertise to a wide variety of TV, radio, and print reporters.
On-campus activities include symposiums, guest lecturers, and weekly
screenings, all of which are open to the public. For further information
contact Robert Thompson, director, 315-443-4077, http://tvcenter.syr.edu/

#### Center for Digital Media Entrepreneurship

The Newhouse Center for Digital Media Entrepreneurship provides courses,
consulting, connections and cop-ops/internships to encourage Newhouse students
to start businesses and to identify new career opportunities in a fast-
changing media industry. The Center teaches digital media trends, business
modeling, and the latest in venture development. The work of the center is
reinforced through one-on-one coaching and supporting resources on- and off-
campus including mentoring, team development, assistance with legal, funding,
technology and management issues, and more. Through internships and events
(such as South by Southwest in Austin, and events with the start-up community
in NYC), students are exposed to digital media startups and the start-up
culture. In promoting digital media innovation and entrepreneurship, the
Center also connects students to alumni and others who are innovating and
changing the media industry. For further information contact Sean Branagan,
director, 315-443-6310; email startups@syr.edu or visit
http://www.newhousestartups.com/

#### Newhouse Sports Media Center

The Newhouse Sports Media Center builds upon the Newhouse School's long
history and strengths in sports communications. The Center provides courses
across the spectrum of media- courses such as, radio sports broadcasting,
sports writing across platforms, sports reporting, esports and media, sports
production, play-by-play, sports interviewing, to only name a few. The
Newhouse Sports Media oversees the Sports Media & Communications Track in the
Newhouse Master's program, connects students with internship and career
opportunities through over 20 industry partnerships and fosters student and
alumni interaction with a year-round speaker and guest lecture series.

The Newhouse Sports Media Center sponsors special student opportunities such
as reporting from the Super Bowl, hosting and producing ACC Network studio
shows on ESPN, participation in the Sports PR Summit in NYC, photographing and
reporting from the Empire state games and many more.

Broadcast and Digital Journalism and Television, Radio and Film Professor of
Practice, Olivia Stomski is the Center director. For further information,
visit: http://newhousesports.syr.edu/.

#### The Newhouse Center for Global Engagement

The Newhouse Center for Global Engagement is dedicated to creating
collaborative, ethical, globally-engaged students through experiential
learning, cross-disciplinary storytelling, fellowships, industry partnerships,
innovation and symposia. The center features the global work of Newhouse
students, faculty and staff while providing a hub for new initiatives and
partnerships. The center strives to bring the classroom into the world, and
the world into the classroom. Associate Professor Ken Harper is the center
director. For further information visit: http://newhouseglobal.syr.edu/

#### Tully Center for Free Speech

The. S.I. Newhouse School is the home of the Tully Center for Free Speech,
which educates students and the public about the value of free speech, free
press and the First Amendment. The Center annually presents the Free Speech
Award to a journalist who has faced significant turmoil in performing
journalism in the previous year. The Center sponsors educational programs and
conducts research related to media law and free speech, serves as a
clearinghouse on media law issues in New York State, and supports
interdisciplinary work on free speech topics at Syracuse University. For
further information contact Associate Professor Roy Gutterman, director at
315-443-3523, http://tully.syr.edu/

#### The Weiss Center for Social Commerce

The Weiss Center for Social Commerce was made possible in 2012 through the
generosity of Syracuse University alums, Jim and Audra Weiss '87\. Jim is
founder and CEO of Real Chemistry, a global health innovation company
headquartered in San Francisco with fifteen offices worldwide. The Center's
mission is to ensure SU students graduate with the cutting-edge skills needed
to address the convergence of communications with "big data," business
analytics, digital technology and social media in the emerging area of "social
commerce." Toward this end, the Center brings together marketing,
communications, and digital experts from the industry with faculty and
students; complements current course offerings with hands-on workshops and
case studies; involves students in applied research projects for clients; and
hosts internships at Real Chemistry and client offices across the United
States. For more information, visit http://socialcommerce.syr.edu/.

#### Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse (TRAC)

The Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse (TRAC) is a data gathering,
research and distribution organization affiliated with the Newhouse School and
the Martin J. Whitman School of Management at Syracuse University. TRAC's
purpose is to provide the American people-and institutions of oversight such
as Congress, news organizations, public interest groups, businesses, scholars
and lawyers-with comprehensive information about staffing, spending and
enforcement activities of the federal government. For more information, visit
http://trac.syr.edu/ or email trac@syr.edu

### Library Resources and Services

Syracuse University Libraries support teaching, learning, and research at the
S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications by providing a wide array of
research support services, facilities, and on-site and online resources at
https://library.syracuse.edu.

Library collections in public communications cover advertising, broadcast and
digital journalism, print journalism, communication theory and research, law
of the press, public relations, printing, photography, film, and freelance
writing. Communications-related databases, accessible from any location on or
off campus, include Nexis Uni, Factiva, Simmons Insights, Statista, Media
Intelligence Center, PressReader, ProQuest Historical Newspapers, SCOLA, AP
Newsroom, Vanderbilt University's Television News Archive, JSTOR,
Communication Source, World Advertising Research Center, Mintel Reports,
eMarketer, Inside Intelligence, Adforum, ProQuest Dissertations & Theses
Global, Web of Science, Scopus, Sage Research Methods Online, and many more.
In addition, the library offers ebooks in the hundreds of thousands and
substantial collections of streaming videos and DVDs, sound recordings, media
trade magazines, collections of the memoirs of foreign correspondents; and
private papers of American news people, broadcasters, authors, and
cartoonists. All current students, faculty and staff also have access beyond
subscription paywalls to the platforms for the digital _New York Times,
Washington Post,_  _Wall Street Journal, Syracuse.com, Advertising Age, and
The Chronicle of Higher Education. _

Physical facilities offer extensive hours, including 24-hour access most days,
open collaborative study areas, teaching and seminar spaces, quiet and silent
reading spaces, information technology loans, computer labs, reservable group
study rooms, a faculty commons, digital scholarship services, Pages Café,
events spaces for student, librarian or faculty use, a Center for Learning and
Student Success, Office of Undergraduate Research and Creative Engagement, a
Biblio Gallery for exhibition of student creative work and the Blackstone
Launchpad, a multidisciplinary center for entrepreneurship.

The Library's Special Collections Research Center (SCRC) collects the history
of American broadcasting. Notable acquisitions include the personal papers of
iconic broadcast journalist Ted Koppel, which includes near complete runs of
_Nightline_ and _The Koppel Report_. SCRC is also the repository for the
papers of several American columnists of national note William Safire, Drew
Pearson, Westbrook Pegler, George Sokolsky, Harold Ickes, Dorothy Thompson,
and Arthur Brisbane; an outstanding collection of prints, negatives, and
personal papers of noted photographer Margaret Bourke- White, as well as
personal papers, scripts, and audio-visual media of communications
personalities Norman Corwin, Mike Wallace, Dick Clark, Long John Nebel, and
Fulton Lewis Jr., as well as those involved in the business of television,
such as Ed Bleier. The SCRC also maintains an extensive archive of scripts,
videos, and personal papers in the field of television history, including
scripts and production notes from _NYPD Blue_ and _Party of Five_ ; scripts
and videotapes of _St. Elsewhere_ ; and interviews by critics Arthur Unger and
Steven H. Scheuer.

#### Programs

**Master 's**

  * • Advanced Media Management, MS
  * • Advertising, MA
  * • Arts Journalism and Communications, MA
  * • Audio Arts, MA
  * • Broadcast and Digital Journalism, MS
  * • Communications Management, MS
  * • Communications, MS
  * • Magazine, News and Digital Journalism, MA
  * • Media Studies, MA
  * • Multimedia, Photography and Design, MS
  * • Public Diplomacy and Global Communications, MA
  * • Public Relations, MS
  * • Television, Radio and Film, MA

**Doctorate**

  * • Mass Communications, PhD

**Combined Degree**

  * • 4+1 A&S/Newhouse Combined Degrees
  * • Law / Arts Journalism and Communications, JD/MA
  * • Law/Advertising, JD/MA
  * • Law/Magazine, News and Digital Journalism, JD/MA
  * • Law/Public Relations, JD/MS
  * • Law/Television, Radio & Film, JD/MA

  

* * *

![Print this page.](img/print.gif)Print this Page

Facebook this Page (opens a new window)

Tweet this Page (opens a new window)  
  
|  Global Search Catalog Search  
Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Schools and Colleges
Academic Rules Entire Catalog  
Search Keyword Field  
  
Whole Word/Phrase  
Advanced Search  
  
---  
  
* * *  
  
Catalog Navigation |  Catalog Home

* * *

General Information

* * *

Academic Rules

* * *

Academic Offerings Other Programs Courses

* * *

School of Architecture College of Arts and Sciences School of Education
College of Engineering and Computer Science David B. Falk College of Sport and
Human Dynamics School of Information Studies College of Law Martin J. Whitman
School of Management Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs S.I.
Newhouse School of Public Communications College of Professional Studies
College of Visual and Performing Arts SUNY-ESF (Partner Institution)

* * *

Archived Catalogs  
---  
  
* * *  
  
All catalogs (C) 2024 Syracuse University. Powered by Modern Campus Catalog™. | 

