Skip to Content

#

|

##  Course Catalog

Office of the Registrar, 106 Steele Hall Syracuse, NY 13244 | (315) 443-2422

  * ﻿ Like Us on Facebook
  * ﻿ Follow Us on Twitter

  * Accessibility
  * Accreditation
  * Emergencies
  * Privacy

  
---  
2023-2024 Graduate Course Catalog Syracuse University |   
|  |  2023-2024 Graduate Course Catalog |  |  Select a Catalog 2024-2025 Undergraduate Course Catalog 2024-2025 Graduate Course Catalog 2023-2024 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2023-2024 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2022-2023 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2022-2023 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2014-2015 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2014-2015 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] |   
---|---  
|  Sep 19, 2024  |   
|  |  **HELP** 2023-2024 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]  

#  School of Education

![Print this page.](img/print.gif)Print this Page Facebook this Page (opens a
new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window)  
---  
  
* * *  
  
  * Academic Offerings
  * Faculty
  * Courses
  * About the School
  * Educational Mission
  * Accreditation
  * Graduate Education

|

  * Student Services
  * Career Services Office
  * Study Abroad
  * Facilities
  * Projects, Partnerships & Outreach

  
---|---  
  
![](/mime/media/36/4613/Dean%20Kelly%20Chandler-Olcott.jpg)

Kelly Chandler-Olcott  
Dean

230 Huntington Hall  
soe.syr.edu

### About the School

There are no careers more critical to the human condition and sustainability
than teaching, educational policy and the foundations of education, counseling
and instructional technology. Our undergraduate and graduate students as well
as our faculty come from throughout the U.S. and from around the world.

### Accreditation

Professional accreditation of preparatory education programs is the bedrock
upon which all professions (e.g., architecture, engineering, medicine, and
law) have built their reputations. It assures that those entering the
respective field have been suitably prepared to practice through assimilation
of a body of knowledge and pre-service practice in the profession.
Accreditation of schools of education indicates that the school underwent
rigorous external review by professionals, that performance of a teacher
candidate in the program has been thoroughly assessed before he or she is
recommended for licensure, and that programs meet standards set by the
teaching profession at large.

Regional accreditation organizations are now following this same rigorous
approach to assessments and are asking faculty from education to be leaders at
their institutions. This paradigm shift is creating a culture on college
campuses towards innovation and quality improvements.

The Syracuse University School of Education is currently accredited for
teacher preparation and other professional school personnel programs by the
Association for Advancing Quality in Educator Preparation (AAQEP) for the next
seven years starting in 2021 through December 2027.

### Educational Mission

The mission of the Syracuse University School of Education is to prepare
thoughtful and socially just leaders who bridge scholarship and practice.
Through collaborative partnerships and multifaceted inclusive approaches, we
enhance student learning and success, physical activity and health, and mental
health and wellbeing across communities. We enact our mission through the
following nine core commitments.

• To graduate highly skilled and knowledgeable practitioners, teachers,
administrators, counselors, scholars, and other professionals who are leaders
in their respective fields and are committed to inclusion in policy and
practice

• To operate from a social justice philosophy that includes advocating for the
rights of historically marginalized populations and for educational, health,
and broader forms of equity

• To pursue rigorous scholarship, including evolving forms of intellectual and
creative work that has an impact in local and global contexts

• To promote wellness across communities including multiple dimensions of
physical health and activity, and socio-emotional wellbeing

• To prepare leaders in multiple fields including through intensive field
experiences informed by theory, scholarly evidence, exemplary practices, and
reciprocal university-community relations

• To stimulate student success through transformative pedagogy, student-
centered learning, and effective integration of technology-based and other
resources

• To recognize that diversity and academic excellence are inseparable.
Diversity is embraced in its varied dimensions including but not limited to a
diverse community of faculty, students, and staff; multiculturalism; and work
in diverse schools and social environments.

• To foster interdisciplinary scholarship and collaborative partnerships, and
to promote a climate in the School of Education and the broader university
community characterized by mutual respect and democratic and sustainable
practices

• To nurture a vibrant, close-knit community of scholars and students who
enrich as well as draw from the breadth of resources and opportunities of a
research university.

### Graduate Education

#### Degree Requirements

Each graduate degree or certificate offered by the school represents a
different level of achievement.

The Master of Science (M.S.), or Master of Music (M.Mus.) is the first degree
beyond the bachelor's degree. Each master's program is designed to develop in-
depth knowledge of a particular field of professional education.

The Certificate of Advanced Study (C.A.S.) offers greater scope, depth, and
thoroughness of preparation beyond the master's degree, or an opportunity for
specialized study that is less than a master's degree.

A doctoral degree is considered the highest level of academic achievement. The
Ph.D. is an academic degree. The Ed.D. is a professional degree. Students with
an interest in research or in university teaching usually pursue the Ph.D.
Their programs emphasize intensive study in a major area of specialization and
often a minor area as well, leading to the development or extension of theory
and research in the major field. Many Ed.D. candidates seek positions as
administrators, supervisors, consultants, college professors, and as non-
teaching education specialists.

General information about degree requirements is listed below. For details on
degree requirements, see information provided by the Office of Academic and
Student Services, 111 Waverly Avenue, Suite 230, 315-443-9319. Information on
specific requirements is available from the office of the chair or coordinator
of each program of study.

#### Master's Degree

The School of Education offers the M.S. in more than 25 areas and, an M.Mus.
option in music education. Selected areas of study lead to public school
teacher certification; others prepare students for roles in various
educational and non-educational settings. Many master's degree programs are
available to applicants with no previous study in that field.

Preparation programs meet the academic requirements for those with a
bachelor's degree in a field other than education who pursue their first
certificate for public school service in a specific area. Preparation programs
also serve those who are certified in one area but seek certification in a new
area.

Master's professional certification programs are designed for those who are
already certified in a subject area but want a master's degree in that same
area to meet academic requirements for the next level of certification.

A select number of master's programs prepare students for roles not requiring
certification, while others help to prepare for doctoral candidacy. For a
complete listing, see "Programs Offered and Degrees Conferred."

All master's degree programs require a minimum of 30 credits; some require
more. Some programs allow students to elect one or more courses offered by
other academic units of Syracuse University, such as the Maxwell School of
Citizenship and Public Administration or the Colleges of Arts and Sciences,
Visual and Performing Arts, The David B. Falk College of Sport and Human
Dynamics. No more than 9 credits (6 credit limit for Higher Education) taken
outside of Syracuse University may be transferred into a 30-credit master's
degree program.

All master's programs require one of the following: a thesis, a portfolio
review, or an intensive examination. Graduate students must maintain a GPA of
3.0 to graduate.

#### Certificate of Advanced Study (C.A.S.)

A C.A.S program may be completed independent of or concurrently with a
master's degree or doctoral degree depending on specific program requirements.
The certificate is not an intermediate step to a doctoral degree. The C.A.S.
programs in Educational Leadership and School Counseling meet the academic
requirements for New York State certification in those areas.

#### C.A.S. Requirements

The C.A.S. in Educational Leadership prepares graduates to be effective,
collaborative, equitable, and compassionate administrators in school buildings
and districts. The program covers 30 of the 60 graduate credits required to
receive dual New York Certification as a School Building Leader and School
District Leader, through a set of 8 required courses and 6 credits of a year-
long internship.

The C.A.S. in School Counseling prepares graduates who have met the
requirements for provisional New York State certification in school counseling
to meet the 60 credit requirement for permanent certification.

The School's Department of Cultural Foundations of Education (CFE), Higher
Education (HE), and its Instructional Design, Development and Evaluation
Department (IDD&E) offer Certificates of Advanced Study:

CFE offers a Certificate of Advanced Study in Disability Studies. This is a 15
credit program, with the additional requirement of an oral or written
examination at the completion of the coursework. The C.A.S. in Disability
Studies is available to students enrolled in any Syracuse University graduate
program as well as to applicants who wish to pursue the C.A.S. as a single
course of study.

HE offers a Certificate of Advanced Study in Intercollegiate Athletic Advising
and Support. This is a 12 credit program designed for current and future
higher education professionals (e.g. advisors, higher education/student
affairs administrators, and coaches) who wish to understand the research,
practice, and policy perspectives associated with intercollegiate sport and
student-athlete development in the context of higher education.

IDD&E offers three Certificate of Advanced Study programs in Designing Digital
Instruction (15 credits), Educational Technology (15 credits), and
Instructional Design Foundations (12 credits). These programs are designed for
students who require additional knowledge and expertise in order to advance in
their professional careers.

#### Doctoral Degree

Before applying for a doctoral degree program, candidates should correspond
with the program coordinator of the specific program of interest and, if
possible, arrange for a personal interview.

Programs for both the Ph.D. and the Ed.D. degrees require a minimum of 90
graduate credits beyond the bachelor's degree, with most students entering
with a completed master's degree. Coursework is usually distributed among core
requirements, major area requirements, supporting minor areas, research tools,
and dissertation credits. One-half of pre-dissertation course credits must be
taken at Syracuse University. Successful candidates for either doctoral degree
must pass a preliminary examination early in the program, and qualifying
examinations in the field of specialization and any supporting minor areas
later in the program; demonstrate competence in research; write a dissertation
based upon an independent investigation that adds to existing knowledge in the
field; and pass an oral defense of the dissertation. An overall B average,
completion of a residency or time-to-completion requirement, and completion of
all requirements within 5 years of the qualifying examination are also
required. All candidates for the Ph.D. degree are required to complete a
research apprenticeship, including a supervised research activity over a
period of not less than one year, under the direction of a Syracuse University
faculty member. Ed.D. students must complete a practicum requirement.

#### Non-matriculated Students

Students with a bachelor's degree from an accredited institution may take
courses in the School of Education without enrolling in a degree program (non-
matriculated student). Some courses require approval of the instructors.
Enrolling in coursework as a non-matriculated student does not allow the non-
matriculated student the same academic advisement as matriculated students. No
more than 9 credits taken before matriculation may be transferred to a degree
program. No more than 6 credits may be taken prior to matriculating into the
Higher Education M.S. degree program. All such courses must be approved by the
student's advisor. A registration hold will be put on students' accounts who
have reached this limit.

### Internal Admission Process

Students who are currently enrolled in a Syracuse University graduate program
who would like to add a graduate program for a term prior to completing their
first degree may apply to add a new graduate program by using the Graduate
Enrollment Internal Admission Application. The internal admission application
and instructions are available in the Office of Academic and Student Services,
located at 111 Waverly Avenue, Suite 230. Students enrolled in formal
concurrent master's programs must complete the requirements for both programs
prior to graduation. There is no fee for the internal admission process.

### Student Services

#### The Office of Academic and Student Services

The Office of Academic and Student Services was created to ensure that
students get the most out of their college experience. The staff in the office
provides a thorough and effective system of support for both undergraduate and
graduate students from the admissions process through graduation and beyond.

From academic support to career advice to information about opportunities to
study abroad, the professionals in Academic and Student Services have the
experience and knowledge to answer questions, provide advisement, and make
referrals as necessary.

#### Forms

Official forms most commonly requested by students can be found in the Office
of Academic and Student Services, and also on the website at:
https://soe.syr.edu/departments/administrative/academic-services/forms/  
If a form that is relevant to a specific academic situation cannot be found on
the website, students can stop by the Office of Academic and Student Services
for assistance.

Academic and Student Services  
111 Waverly Avenue, Suite 230  
Syracuse, NY 13244  
Phone (315) 443-9319  
Fax (315) 443-5732

#### Graduate Advising

The Office of Academic and Student Services provides advice and guidance on
School of Education and Syracuse University policies, advocates for student
concerns, and offers a range of services to assist students as they work
toward their academic and career goals.

The mission of Academic and Student Services is to help students succeed by
providing information, fostering personal development and responsibility, and
offering supportive services. Students have an open invitation to stop by with
questions or concerns regarding academic programs, advising, career issues,
and certification. If an answer is not provided here, our staff is dedicated
to helping students find what they need.

Services available to graduate students through the Office of Academic and
Student Services include the following:

  * Advising (staff)
  * Admissions
  * Academic and Personal Support
  * Career Services
  * Teacher Certification

Students will be assigned faculty advisors in addition to professional
advisors in the Office of Academic and Student Services.

### Career Services Office

The School of Education Career Services office provides a variety of services
to help students with their job search in the education field. These services
include assistance with career exploration, opening a credential file, resume
development, participation in the annual Teacher Recruitment Days recruiting
fair, institutional recommendations for New York State Teacher Certification
and assistance with questions about in and out-of-state teacher certification.

**Credential Files**

  * Establishes a confidential credential file to be housed electronically in the School of Education Career Services office and transmitted on written request by the applicant (by email to: soecareer@syr.edu).
  * Contains recommendation letters from host teachers, professors and employers and can be used for completing most employment applications and for graduate school applications where the receiving institution's platform allows for it.
  * Recommended to be opened in the senior year, just prior to or during student teaching.
  * A $35 registration fee is required to open a file. The $35 fee includes the first three transmissions. (Additional transmissions are charged at the rate of $5 for a single transmission; $20 for five transmissions or $30 for 10 transmissions.)
  * Payment can be made by cash, credit card (via Handshake) or by check or money order made payable to Syracuse University.

  * Application forms are available on the School of Education website or by emailing soecareer@syr.edu.

#### Resume and Cover Letter Assistance

  * Resume and cover letter review and assistance. Please email request for information or resources to the Career Advisor at soecareer@syr.edu.
  * Register for topical workshops through syr.joinhandshake.com.
  * Individual appointments can be made by selecting the School of Education career services office in Handshake (at syr.joinhandshake.com)

#### Teacher Recruitment Days

  * The annual Central New York Teacher Recruitment Days job fair is held every spring.
  * Eligible Syracuse University School of Education students will be offered the opportunity to interview with recruiters representing school districts from across the nation.

#### Job Search Handbook for Educators

  * This handbook is available free of charge to facilitate the job search. It offers valuable tips for resumes, cover letters and interviewing techniques. It also contains information related to job hunt strategies and teacher 'supply and demand' per region.

### Study Abroad

At Syracuse University, studying abroad is a longstanding tradition. More than
half the students enrolled through the Syracuse Abroad come from universities
across the U.S. and from almost all major fields of study.

The School's programs run in conjunction with Syracuse Abroad and have close
ties to local universities, allowing students to design integrated programs of
study appropriate to their academic and linguistic abilities. Every Syracuse
Abroad Center is overseen by a faculty director, administrators and host-
country staff who are available to assist students at all times with their
academic and personal needs. Pre-departure and on-site orientation programs
further prepare students for their semester or year abroad.

The School of Education supports and encourages study abroad for undergraduate
and graduate students enrolled in any of our programs. Graduate students
typically participate in short-term study abroad opportunities most often
offered in the summer. All School of Education students may apply for
additional financial aid for study abroad through the Corinne R. Smith Study
Abroad Program Fund.

### Community, Collaboration and Facilities

The quality of a student-centered research institution is measured in part by
its success in integrating its students' learning experiences and its faculty
members' scholarship. In a professional school, the key to that integration
lies in sustained, critical, always-respectful engagement with the profession
and those it serves. It relies upon creating a community of learners devoted
to service. The efforts of our students and faculty members to create such a
community are supported by an organizational infrastructure of coordinating
councils, teacher centers, subject matter academies, specially-funded research
and development projects, and skilled staff members. All are devoted to
nurturing collaborative partnerships between preservice educators, University
faculty, and practicing professionals in public education, higher education,
and other educational and work environments.

The following facilities are part of our campus in Syracuse, New York:

  * Huntington Hall houses the Dean's office and the majority of School of Education departments and offices.
  * Comstock Art Facility, 1055 Comstock Ave is the main building for Art Education.
  * Crouse College houses an auditorium, and faculty, classrooms and practice space for Music Education.
  * Carnegie is home to Math Education.
  * Sims houses the Counseling and Human Services Department, and the Psycho-educational evaluation teaching laboratory.
  * 111 Waverly Avenue, Suite 230 is home to the Office of Academic and Student Services.

### Projects, Partnerships, & Outreach

### https://soe.syr.edu/research/projects/

The School of Education is committed to fostering interdisciplinary
scholarship and collaborative partnerships. Outreach and relationships across
local communities provide professional development for educators, engaging
enrichment activities for PreK-12 students, and immersive field placements for
our students. Our work nationally and internationally works to bring venues
for discussion and cooperation around social justice, equity, and equality.

### Centers & Institutes

https://soe.syr.edu/departments/centers/

Our Centers and Institutes work toward full inclusion for all students with
disability in higher education, community, and communication. The Center for
Academic Achievement and Student Development boasts seven opportunity programs
that provide local K-12 and Syracuse University students access to academic
support and resources to achieve their goals.

### Center for Academic Achievement and Student Development (CAASD)

https://academicopportunity.syr.edu/

The Center for Academic Achievement and Student Development houses seven
Academic Opportunity programs that serve all Syracuse University students, as
well as students in local K-12 public schools

  * Collegiate Science and Technology Entry Program (CSTEP)
  * Science and Technology Entry Program (STEP)
  * Louis Stokes Alliance for Minority Participation (LSAMP)
  * Ronald E. McNair Scholars Program
  * Arthur O. Eve Higher Education Opportunity Program

  * TRIO Student Support Services

  * Liberty Partnerships Program

  * Extended Campus

  * Office of Professional Research and Development

#### Programs

**Master 's**

  * • Art Education: Professional Certification, MS (Not admitting students) 
  * • Arts Education: Preparation, MS
  * • Childhood Education (1-6) Preparation, MS
  * • Clinical Mental Health Counseling, MS
  * • Cultural Foundations of Education, MS
  * • Early Childhood Special Education, MS
  * • Educational Leadership, MS (Not admitting students)
  * • English Education: Preparation (7-12), MS
  * • Higher Education, MS
  * • Inclusive Special Education (Generalist) Grades 7-12, MS
  * • Inclusive Special Education: 1-6 Preparation, MS
  * • Inclusive Special Education: Severe/Multiple Disabilities, MS (NOT ADMITTING STUDENTS)
  * • Instructional Design, Development and Evaluation, MS (on campus or fully online)
  * • Literacy Education: Birth to Grade 12, MS
  * • Mathematics Education Preparation 7-12, MS
  * • Music Education Preparation, MS
  * • Music Education Professional Certification, MMus
  * • Music Education Professional Certification, MS (Not admitting students)
  * • School Counseling P-12, MS
  * • School Counseling, MS (Not admitting students, has been replaced by School Counseling P-12, MS)
  * • Science/Biology Education: Preparation (7-12), MS
  * • Science/Chemistry Education: Preparation (7-12), MS
  * • Science/Earth Science Education: Preparation (7-12), MS
  * • Science/Physics Education: Preparation (7-12), MS
  * • Social Studies Education: Preparation 7-12, MS
  * • Teaching and Curriculum, MS
  * • Teaching English Language Learners (First Certification), MS (Not admitting students)
  * • Teaching English Language Learners, MS (Not admitting students)

**Doctorate**

  * • Counseling and Counselor Education, PhD
  * • Cultural Foundations of Education, PhD
  * • Educational Leadership, EdD
  * • Higher Education, PhD
  * • Instructional Design, Development and Evaluation, PhD
  * • Literacy Education, PhD
  * • Mathematics Education, PhD
  * • Science Education, PhD
  * • Special Education, PhD
  * • Teaching and Curriculum, PhD

**Combined Degree**

  * • Cultural Foundations of Education, JD/MS/CAS

**Certificate of Advanced Study**

  * • Designing Digital Instruction (CAS)
  * • Disability Studies, CAS
  * • Educational Leadership, CAS
  * • Instructional Design Foundations, CAS
  * • Intercollegiate Athletic Advising and Support, CAS
  * • School Counseling, CAS

  

* * *

![Print this page.](img/print.gif)Print this Page

Facebook this Page (opens a new window)

Tweet this Page (opens a new window)  
  
|  Global Search Catalog Search  
Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Schools and Colleges
Academic Rules Entire Catalog  
Search Keyword Field  
  
Whole Word/Phrase  
Advanced Search  
  
---  
  
* * *  
  
Catalog Navigation |  Catalog Home

* * *

General Information

* * *

Academic Rules

* * *

Academic Offerings Other Programs Courses

* * *

School of Architecture College of Arts and Sciences School of Education
College of Engineering and Computer Science David B. Falk College of Sport and
Human Dynamics School of Information Studies College of Law Martin J. Whitman
School of Management Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs S.I.
Newhouse School of Public Communications College of Professional Studies
College of Visual and Performing Arts SUNY-ESF (Partner Institution)

* * *

Archived Catalogs  
---  
  
* * *  
  
All catalogs (C) 2024 Syracuse University. Powered by Modern Campus Catalog™. | 

