Skip to Content

#

|

##  Course Catalog

Office of the Registrar, 106 Steele Hall Syracuse, NY 13244 | (315) 443-2422

  * ﻿ Like Us on Facebook
  * ﻿ Follow Us on Twitter

  * Accessibility
  * Accreditation
  * Emergencies
  * Privacy

  
---  
2023-2024 Undergraduate Course Catalog Syracuse University |   
|  |  2023-2024 Undergraduate Course Catalog |  |  Select a Catalog 2024-2025 Undergraduate Course Catalog 2024-2025 Graduate Course Catalog 2023-2024 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2023-2024 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2022-2023 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2022-2023 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2014-2015 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2014-2015 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] |   
---|---  
|  Sep 19, 2024  |   
|  |  **HELP** 2023-2024 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]  

#  College of Visual and Performing Arts

![Print this page.](img/print.gif)Print this Page Facebook this Page (opens a
new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window)  
---  
  
* * *  
  
  * About the College
  * Academic Offerings
  * Faculty
  * Courses
  * Academic Departments

|

  * General Regulations
  * The First-Year Experience
  * Educational Mission
  * Accreditation
  * Study Abroad
  * Facilities
  * Research Centers and Institutes
  * University Requirements

  
---|---  
  
![](/mime/media/35/3739/Dean%20Tick.jpeg)

Michael Tick, Dean  
200 Crouse College  
http://vpa.syr.edu/

### About the College

The College of Visual and Performing Arts is dedicated to nurturing the
creative and scholarly abilities of its students. The college, which is at the
center of the University's cultural life, is organized into six areas: the
School of Art , Communication and Rhetorical Studies , the School of Design ,
the Department of Drama , the Department of Film and Media Arts , and the
Setnor School of Music . Recognizing the link between education,
understanding, and cultural knowledge, the College of Visual and Performing
Arts is also committed to providing sites for learning about diversity
throughout its curricula.

### Accreditation

The college's programs in art, design, and transmedia are accredited by the
National Association of Schools of Art and Design (NASAD). In addition to
NASAD accreditation, our environmental and interior design program is also
accredited with the Council for Interior Design Accreditation (CIDA). The
Setnor School of Music and its programs are accredited by the National
Association of Schools of Music (NASM). Programs in the Department of
Communication and Rhetorical Studies and the Department of Drama engage in
regularly scheduled Self-Studies involving programmatic review and site visits
by a panel of external reviewers from their respective disciplines.

### Shared Competencies

The College of Visual and Performing Arts participates in students' knowledge
and skill development through the Shared Competencies, Syracuse University's
institutional learning goals that highlight the knowledge and skills students
can expect to gain through their major courses, liberal arts requirements and
co-curricular activities.

### Educational Mission

The College of Visual and Performing Arts is committed to the education of
cultural leaders who will engage and inspire audiences through performance,
visual art, design, scholarship, and commentary. The college provides the
tools for self-discovery and risk-taking in an environment that thrives on
critical thought and action.

### General Regulations

For academic rules and regulations that apply to all University students, see
the Academic Rules section of this catalog, which also contains special
regulations that apply to all undergraduate students matriculated in the
College of Visual and Performing Arts.

#### Intra-University Transfer

Students interested in transferring into VPA must attend an IUT informational
session in order to understand the process and obtain the application
materials. These sessions are held throughout the semester. Minimum
requirements include a cumulative GPA of 3.0 or better, and a completed
application form. Some programs require an audition, portfolio review, or a
questionnaire. Please contact the VPA Office of Academic and Career Advising,
200 Crouse College, for additional information. Application deadlines vary by
program; admission for all programs is on a space-available basis.

#### Transfer Credit

Transfer of credit is considered only for courses that may be applied to the
program in which the student is interested. In the School of Art , School of
Design , Department of Drama , Department of Film and Media Arts , and the
Setnor School of Music , transfer students often have an excess of credits in
academic subjects that cannot be applied to a specific program due to the high
number of studio credits required. The result may be that the period of
undergraduate study is extended beyond the typical four years (or five for the
BID in Industrial and Interaction Design). In the Setnor School of Music ,
placement examinations in music theory and applied music are also required
before credit is accepted.

In all cases, transfer credit is evaluated after admission specifically for
the degree program to which the student is admitted, and may change if the
student moves into a different program. Credits - not grades or honor points -
are transferred from other institutions. Only credits earned at Syracuse
University are counted in the grade point average. If the student subsequently
takes a course at SU for which he/she had previously received transfer credit,
the transfer credit will be removed, as courses completed at SU take
precedent. This includes credits transferred for academics or studio
electives.

#### Fees

All students matriculated in a VPA major or minor are charged a program fee
each semester that covers certain expenses such as applied music instruction,
specialized studio art supplies, dramatic productions, visiting artists, and
equipment and technology. Non-VPA students are charged an applied music fee
for private instruction and a per credit fee for other VPA courses. See the SU
Tuition, Fees and Related Policies bulletin for specific charges.

### The First-Year Experience

All first-year students are assigned faculty advisors to help them plan their
programs. In all six areas of the college, first-year courses and programs
address the adjustment and integration of first-year students into college
life. In each area, the emphasis is on small class size, one-to-one contact
with faculty, the development of skills, and the personal appropriateness of
each student's choice of professional pursuit.

The School of Art offers an exciting, energetic culture of students who are
encouraged to cross-conventional boundaries with their work. The first-year
experience includes both required and elective academic options.

The School of Design first-year experience provides a focused design studio-
based education, critical to the development of a solid understanding of the
fundamental elements of the design disciplines. Students leans basic
visualization and making skills, as well as an ability to apply iterative
thought and action processes to a given problem. In addition, students receive
a focused introduction to the ethical and philosophical grounding of the
various design professions.

In the Department of Film and Media Arts , the first-year student experience
is designed to introduce students to studio practice, history, and theory of
media, with an emphasis on the interconnectedness of all four areas of
transmedia. The Transmedia Colloquium brings to campus a wide array of
contemporary artists working with photography, film, video, computer art and
animation. First year students take a sequence of studio classes that build up
a basic set of competencies for editing still and moving images, sound and
animation. Together, these classes work toward developing the necessary
conceptual and practical skills to maintain a creative edge in a rapidly
changing world of art and commerce.

In the Department of Communication and Rhetorical Studies , first-year
students are part of a comprehensive introductory program led by faculty and
staff, incorporating a lecture series, information meetings, alumni panels,
and advising. The entire first-year class takes two courses that involve small
discussion groups of approximately 20 students. In the courses, students meet
with faculty and teaching assistants to address issues of concern in their
discipline.

In the Department of Drama , student involvement in theatrical activity is
immediate. During the first year students participate in the department's
foundation program. Each week drama faculty and students gather for Wednesday
Lab, which includes presentations of scenes from class, guest artists, talks
with alumni, and other panel discussions.

In the Setnor School of Music , a weekly student convocation brings the entire
school community together for performances by their peers, faculty, and many
guest artists. In addition to many hours of individual practice, the school
encourages the development of skills needed for functioning in group
situations. Thus, students are required to be involved in one of the school's
large ensemble groups each semester.

### Study Abroad

The College of Visual and Performing Arts recognizes the immense value that
study abroad opportunities add to our students' educational experiences, and
we strongly encourage all students to begin the exploration of one or more
potential study abroad experiences from day one of their Syracuse University
experience. A good place to start is to have conversations with your academic
advisor and to visit the Syracuse Abroad website at http://suabroad.syr.edu/,
or schedule an appointment to meet with an Syracuse Abroad advisor. Our
college offers specific study abroad semester programs in Florence, London,
Strasbourg and Prague. Summer programs include Berlin, Bologna, Florence, and
Venice. Short-term spring break programs include Brazil and Spain. Funding
opportunities include the undergraduate Dean's Award for International
Education.

### Facilities

The College of Visual and Performing Arts provides an extensive array of
facilities that support our academic programs, including:

**ART** \- extensive studio facilities in the Comstock Art Building on south
campus and the Shaffer Art Building and Smith Hall on main campus. These
facilities are supported by wood and metal shops. At the Comstock location, we
have five studio areas. The _Art Education_ facility includes studio and
classroom space. Our recently renovated _Ceramics_ facility includes a state-
of-the-art materials room, critique gallery, clay making room, mold/plaster
room, dry and wet glaze labs, a resource room, throwing studio/classroom,
sculpture studio/classroom, as well as indoor and outdoor kiln facilities
(Blaauw, Geil, Anagama, and others). The _Jewelry and Metalsmithing_ facility
includes a well-equipped main studio with individual work stations, small
machine and plating/anodizing rooms, plus casting, soldering, and finishing
equipment. The _Printmaking_ facility includes a 6,400 square foot studio
space, housing a wide range of relief, intaglio, lithography, and letter
presses, serigraphy/silks-creening capabilities, and hand papermaking
equipment. Our _Sculpture_ facility offers ample workspaces for assembly,
project spaces dedicated to installation and performance, gallery spaces for
student exhibitions, outdoor casting and large-scale fabrication capabilities,
and semi-private studio spaces for undergraduate students. Shaffer Art
Building houses two studio programs. The _Illustration_ facility includes
studio and classroom spaces, while the _Painting_ facility includes well-
lighted studios with special skylights receiving north light, and a complete
workshop. Finally, Smith Hall serves as the College's graduate and
multidisciplinary hub as well and home to various functions of the Schools of
Art and Design and Communication and Rhetorical Studies Department.

**DESIGN** \- Our Design programs are housed in The Nancy Cantor Warehouse,
Syracuse University's seven-floor building in downtown Syracuse. The
Warehouse's open, industrial space was recently renovated to contain
professional studio facilities for each design program; two shared computer
labs; a printing lab; and Design Works, a fabrication lab. A student lounge,
café, and gallery are conveniently located on the first floor.

**FILM AND MEDIA ARTS** \-  Facilities supporting the Department of Film and
Media Arts are located in the lower level of Shaffer Art Building. Art
Photography students have access to professional scanning and digital printing
equipment which include the world-class production facilities at Light Work as
well as fully equipped lighting studios and a wide array of high end digital
and analog cameras for student use.  Computer Art and Animation facilities
include a main computer lab, an advanced audio production and recording
studio, a green screen room, digital and traditional object fabrication
facilities, and VR equipment. Art Video sports a multi-use, multi-format
facility, in which production is executed with digital film camcorders,
digital audio recorders, and necessary peripherals. Post-production suites are
equipped with Macintosh-based non-linear editing systems equipped with the
Adobe Creative Cloud, Da Vinci Resolve 14, and our color grading stations have
Flanders Scientific Professional broadcast monitors. Video projectors are
available for presentations and exhibition. There are digital, multi-track
audio studios, plus access to other Syracuse University facilities to
complement production, post-production and exhibition activities. The Film
production facilities include 4K Hi-end digital film cameras such as the Canon
C500 and Sony F3 with Odyssey 7Q+ recorders 4K RAW enabled; Blackmagic Design
4K production cameras; Blackmagic Pocket Cinema Cameras with Metabones Speed
boosters; High quality Zeiss film lenses; and a large array of Canon PL
lenses. We also offer students the possibility of shooting 16mm and Super 16mm
with our Aaton XTR Production camera as well as Arri SR1, CP16, and Bolex
cameras. We have a large range of location lighting and grip gear such as the
Arri M18 HMI, Arri Compact HMI Fresnel 1.2K, 4x4 Kino-Flo Banks, Kino-Flo Diva
Lite, Joker-Bug 800W HMI and a large variety of LED lighting. In addition we
have a lighting studio with a green screen and a cinematography room that can
be configured for studio based productions.

**DRAMA** \- The Regent Theatre Complex, which houses the Department of Drama
and Syracuse Stage, contains three theaters and a cabaret space. These four
performance spaces provide the broadest range of design and staging
possibilities, from conventional proscenium to theater-in-the-round. Included
in the complex are The John D. Archbold Theatre, a 499-seat proscenium
theater; The Arthur Storch Theatre, seating up to 250 people, can be
configured as a proscenium, thrust, or avenue stage; The Loft Theatre is an
intimate and flexible space that seats 65 audience members in a variety of
configurations, but is most often used for short plays, readings, workshops
and experimental efforts; The Sutton Pavilion provides a versatile cabaret
space, often for late-night entertainment for Syracuse University and the
greater Syracuse communities. The complex also includes dance studios,
performance/rehearsal studios, lecture rooms, seminar rooms, musical practice
rooms, locker rooms, and showers - as well as the professionally staffed
technical shops that build the Syracuse Stage and Department of Drama
productions. Facilities adjacent to the complex provide theater design and
technology studios, classrooms, and CAD lab.

**MUSIC** \- The Setnor School of Music, located in Crouse College, is home to
the acoustically rich, 700-seat Rose and Jules R. Setnor Auditorium, with its
3,823-pipe Holtkamp Organ. Approximately 200 recitals occur in this space each
academic year. The school has classrooms and rehearsal spaces in Crouse
College and Shaffer Art Building, as well as a recording studio in the Belfer
Audio Archives.

**COMMUNICATION and RHETORICAL STUDIES** \- located in recently renovated
space in Sims Hall, the department's facilities include classrooms designed
for video capture and replay of student speech-making, along with multi-
purpose room for hosting meetings and events.

All VPA programs are supported by wood and metal shops which are located in
the Warehouse, Comstock Art Facility, and Smith Hall.

### Research Centers and Institutes

The College of Visual and Performing Arts supports and celebrates a culture of
research. Both faculty and students across departments and programs engage in
a variety of individual, group and cross-disciplinary initiatives that seek to
expand human knowledge through creative analysis, innovation, and insight.
These efforts are disseminated in a variety of ways including publishing,
presentations, exhibitions and performances. The College's Office of Research
and Graduate Studies facilitates both internal and external funding to support
these efforts and the colleges' mission of providing an environment that
thrives on critical thought and action.

### University Requirements

In addition to FYS 101, the B.A., B.F.A., B.I.D., BMus, and B.S. Degrees
require completion of an IDEA course (chosen from a select list). The IDEA
course requirement may be fulfilled by a Liberal Arts Course, Elective Credit,
or Major Credit depending on the course taken and the student's program of
study. Please see the undergraduate course catalog for a full listing of IDEA
Courses .

FYS 101 - First Year Seminar

### Communication and Rhetorical Studies

#### Programs

**Major**

  * • Communication and Rhetorical Studies, BS

**Minor**

  * • Communication and Rhetorical Studies Minor

### Department of Drama

#### Programs

**Major**

  * • Acting, BFA
  * • Drama, BS
  * • Musical Theater, BFA
  * • Stage Management, BFA
  * • Theater Design and Technology, BFA

**Minor**

  * • Theater Minor

### Department of Film and Media Arts

#### Programs

**Major**

  * • Art Photography, BFA
  * • Computer Art and Animation, BFA
  * • Film, BFA

**Minor**

  * • Animation and Visual Effects Minor
  * • Art Photography Minor
  * • Computer Gaming Minor

### School of Art

#### Programs

**Major**

  * • Arts Education, BFA (Not Currently Admitting Students)
  * • Illustration, BFA
  * • Studio Arts, BFA
  * • Studio Arts, BS

**Minor**

  * • Ceramics Minor
  * • Jewelry and Metalsmithing Minor
  * • Painting Minor
  * • Print Media and Graphic Arts, Minor
  * • Sculpture Minor
  * • Visual Culture Minor

### School of Design

#### Programs

**Major**

  * • Communications Design, BFA
  * • Design Studies, BS
  * • Environmental and Interior Design, BFA
  * • Fashion Design, BFA
  * • Industrial and Interaction Design, BID 

**Minor**

  * • Design Studies Minor
  * • Fashion Design, Minor
  * • Museum Studies Minor
  * • Sustainability in Design Minor

### Setnor School of Music

#### Programs

**Major**

  * • Music Composition, BMus
  * • Music Education, BMus
  * • Music Industry, BMus
  * • Music, BA
  * • Music, BS
  * • Performance, BMus
  * • Sound Recording Technology, BMus
  * • Voice, BMus

**Minor**

  * • Jazz Studies Minor
  * • Music Industry Minor
  * • Music Performance Minor
  * • Private Music Study Minor

**Combined Degree**

  * • Music Industry, BMus/MBA

  

* * *

![Print this page.](img/print.gif)Print this Page

Facebook this Page (opens a new window)

Tweet this Page (opens a new window)  
  
|  Global Search Catalog Search  
Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Schools and Colleges
Academic Rules Entire Catalog  
Search Keyword Field  
  
Whole Word/Phrase  
Advanced Search  
  
---  
  
* * *  
  
Catalog Navigation |  Catalog Home

* * *

General Information

* * *

Academic Rules

* * *

Undergraduate University Requirements Syracuse University's Shared
Competencies

* * *

Academic Offerings Other Programs Courses

* * *

School of Architecture College of Arts and Sciences School of Education
College of Engineering and Computer Science David B. Falk College of Sport and
Human Dynamics School of Information Studies Martin J. Whitman School of
Management Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs S.I. Newhouse
School of Public Communications College of Professional Studies College of
Visual and Performing Arts SUNY-ESF (Partner Institution)

* * *

Archived Catalogs  
---  
  
* * *  
  
All catalogs (C) 2024 Syracuse University. Powered by Modern Campus Catalog™. | 

