Skip to Content

#

|

##  Course Catalog

Office of the Registrar, 106 Steele Hall Syracuse, NY 13244 | (315) 443-2422

  * ﻿ Like Us on Facebook
  * ﻿ Follow Us on Twitter

  * Accessibility
  * Accreditation
  * Emergencies
  * Privacy

  
---  
2023-2024 Undergraduate Course Catalog Syracuse University |   
|  |  2023-2024 Undergraduate Course Catalog |  |  Select a Catalog 2024-2025 Undergraduate Course Catalog 2024-2025 Graduate Course Catalog 2023-2024 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2023-2024 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2022-2023 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2022-2023 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2014-2015 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2014-2015 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] |   
---|---  
|  Sep 19, 2024  |   
|  |  **HELP** 2023-2024 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]  

#  College of Arts and Sciences

![Print this page.](img/print.gif)Print this Page Facebook this Page (opens a
new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window)  
---  
  
* * *  
  
  * Academic Offerings
  * Faculty
  * Courses
  * About the College
  * Academic Departments
  * Undergraduate Studies
  * Undergraduate General Regulations

|

  * Advising and Career Services
  * Declaring Majors
  * University Requirement
  * Liberal Arts Core
  * Special Degree Offerings
  * Other Undergraduate Programs of the College

  
---|---  
  
![](/mime/media/35/5803/Behzad-Mortazavi.original.jpg)

Behzad Mortazavi, Dean  
203 Tolley Building  
thecollege.syr.edu/

### About the College

The College of Arts and Sciences (A&S) is Syracuse University's first and largest college. As the home of the liberal arts, our internationally recognized programs provide the cornerstone of a Syracuse University education with 50+ majors in the natural sciences and mathematics, the humanities, and the social sciences (in partnership with the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs). Approximately one third of Syracuse's student body is enrolled with A&S | Maxwell.

Many of our majors fall organically within A&S' five Signature Subject areas,
areas of deep and broad academic inquiry, scholarship and research:

  * intercultural competency and social justice;
  * medicine, health and wellness;
  * environment and sustainability;
  * origins of the universe and development of the Earth; and
  * communication and human expression.

Hallmarks of an A&S education include a keen focus on experiential learning,
the cultivation of strong critical reasoning and communication skills, and an
integrated advising model that links academic and career mentorship. A&S
students and alumni go on to help create a world that is healthier, more
hopeful and more humane.

A&S is a primary contributor to the University's R1 ("Very High Research")
designation, and both undergraduates and graduates can participate in research
across the disciplines. Students can also choose to complement their A&S
coursework with offerings from the University's other schools and colleges.

Additionally, A&S participates in the Shared Competencies, Syracuse
University's institutional learning goals that highlight the knowledge and
skills students can expect to gain through their major courses, liberal arts
requirements and co-curricular activities. Graduates leave to join a worldwide
network of 70,000+ alumni, and many remain connected to A&S as advisory board
members, immersion trip sponsors, student mentors, and financial supporters.

More Information:

On the Web:  
The College of Arts and Sciences

Dean's Office  
203 Tolley Building  
Phone: 315-443-3949  
E-mail: casdean@syr.edu

### Academic Departments

The College of Arts and Sciences is a place of discovery, creativity, and
imagination that forms the core of a liberal arts education at Syracuse
University. Through its three academic divisions-the Sciences and Mathematics,
the Humanities, and the Social Sciences (offered in collaboration with
Maxwell)-the College offers an eclectic array of traditional degree options as
well as a number of interdisciplinary, dual, and combined-degree programs.

African American Studies  
Anthropology  
Art and Music Histories  
Biology  
Chemistry  
Communication Sciences and Disorders  
Earth & Environmental Sciences  
Economics  
English  
Geography and the Environment  
History  
International Relations  
Languages, Literatures, and Linguistics  
Mathematics  
Philosophy  
Physics  
Political Science  
Psychology  
Policy Studies  
Religion  
Science Teaching  
Sociology  
Women's and Gender Studies  
Writing Studies, Rhetoric, and Composition

### Undergraduate Studies

The College of Arts and Sciences offers undergraduate students an opportunity
to explore major and minor programs in each of the academic divisions:
Humanities, Natural Sciences and Mathematics, and Social Sciences.
Undergraduate Social Sciences courses are taught by faculty who also hold
appointments in the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs.

Interdisciplinary and Special Programs: The College offers a number of
interdepartmental and interdivisional majors and minors.

For a list of the majors and minors offered, refer to Academic Offerings .

### Undergraduate General Regulations

For academic rules and regulations applying to all University students, see
Academic Rules above, which also contains special regulations that apply to
Arts and Sciences students. The regulations below apply to all students
matriculated in the College of Arts and Sciences.

#### Degrees

The College of Arts and Sciences is authorized by New York State to grant the
bachelor of arts (B.A.) and the bachelor of science (B.S.) degrees. Students
dually enrolled in two colleges at Syracuse University are granted the
appropriate degree for the home college. For example, a student in Arts and
Sciences and the S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications might receive
the B.A. in English/advertising, with Arts and Sciences as the home college.
The degree(s) available for each program of study are indicated under Academic
Offerings .

#### Minimum Requirements

A minimum of 120 credits of coursework is required for the B.A. or B.S.
degree. For all students enrolling in the College of Arts and Sciences, 30 of
the 120 credits must be taken in upper-division courses. Every major leading
to the bachelor's degree in the College of Arts and Sciences must include at
least 18 credits of upper-division work (courses numbered 300 and above) in
the field of study. Every B.S. degree program must include at least 30 credits
of upper-division coursework in the field of study, or at least 6 credits more
than the B.A. program in the same field (whichever is greater), in upper-
division work in the field of study. Of the upper-division credits counted
toward the completion of a major, at least 12 must be taken at Syracuse
University. In order to be awarded a B.A. in a program, a student must earn at
least 12 upper division credits uniquely counting toward the B.A. In order to
be awarded a B.S. in a program, a student must earn at least 15 upper division
credits uniquely counting toward the B.S. In the case of the Integrated
Learning Majors, a student must earn at least 12 upper division credits
uniquely counting towards the B.A. or B.S. In order to be awarded a minor in a
program, a student must earn at least 6 upper division credits uniquely
counting toward the minor. Students must earn the grade point average of at
least 2.0 (C) in upper-division courses taken at Syracuse University and
counted toward the completion of a major or minor. To be eligible for
graduation, students must attain the minimum grade point average of 2.0 in
courses taken at Syracuse University.

#### Ninety-Six Credit Rule

Except in the dual and some selected studies programs, it is required that all
singly enrolled College of Arts and Sciences students earn at least 96 arts
and sciences credits (earned in the College of Arts and Sciences or
transferred from another institution and accepted as arts and sciences
credit). Up to 24 credits toward the 120 required for graduation may be taken
in other Syracuse University colleges or schools or accepted in transfer as
non-arts and sciences credit from other accredited institutions. In dual
programs, the college requires that at least 90 credits be earned in the
College of Arts and Sciences (or transferred from another institution and
accepted as arts and sciences credit). Up to 30 non-arts and sciences credits
may count toward the degree. Combined degrees require 96 arts and sciences
credits and a minimum of 150 credits. Under selected studies, programs leading
to the B.A. degree must include at least 90 arts and science credits, and
programs leading to the B.S. degree must include at least 75 arts and science
credits. A maximum of 24 credits of the combination of independent study,
experience credit or pass/fail coursework may be counted toward a degree in
the college. Up to 4 credits in physical education (PED) courses numbered 100
to 299 may be included among the 24 non-Arts and Sciences credits counted
toward a degree in the college for singly enrolled students.

#### Intra-University Transfer

The college will review applications for intra-university transfer on a
continuing basis throughout the academic year. The application deadline for
acceptance to Arts and Sciences and Maxwell is the course add deadline for the
effective term which the student is seeking to IUT. Applicants who are making
satisfactory progress and have a cumulative grade point average of 2.0 or
above will be admitted to the college. Students with a current cumulative GPA
below 2.0 should submit a letter with the application, explaining the
reason(s) for prior academic problems, why they believe they will be
academically successful in the College of Arts and Sciences, and what major
they are interested in pursuing. Students who will have junior standing when
entering the College must include a plan of study form signed by their
intended major department. Incomplete applications will not be considered. The
Assistant Dean of Student Success will review applications. Students will be
notified by e-mail prior to the start of the semester.

### Advising and Career Services

On the Web:  
Advising and Career Services  
Health Professions Advising  
Pre-Law Advising  
  
Office:  
342 Hall of Languages  
Call: 315-443-3150  
E-mail: casadvising@syr.edu

The College's Advising and Career Services are designed to ensure academic
success for students from the time they arrive on campus through graduation.
Our professional staff members work as a team to help students make a
successful transition to college, to explore their interests, to develop a
plan for their academic career, and to successfully meet their academic and
career goals. Specifically, our professional staff members help students:

  * Develop time management skills
  * Identify academic enrichment opportunities
  * Map strategies to improve academic performance
  * Understand the Liberal Arts Core
  * Select courses, majors, and minors
  * Maintain steady progress toward completing degrees
  * Plan for graduate school or entry into the job market

Additionally, staff members help students understand the purpose and benefits
of a liberal arts education and how to effectively market a liberal arts
degree to prospective employers.

Pre-professional advising services are designed for students interested in
pursuing careers in the health and legal professions. Services include
individual and small group, workshops designed to enable students to
successfully prepare for, and transition to, post-baccalaureate degree
programs in the health and legal professions. Pre-health and pre-law advising
is available to all matriculated Syracuse University and SUNY-ESF
undergraduate students and alumni.

Special Note: Medical schools require applicants to obtain either a
Sponsorship or Credentials letter from their respective college's pre-health
advising program.

Office:  
342 Hall of Languages  
Phone: 315-443-3150  
Fax: 315-443-9397  
Email: casadvising@syr.edu

### Declaring Majors

Each student in the College of Arts and Sciences must fulfill the requirements
of at least one major. The majors available, including dual and combined
degree programs, are described under individual headings under Academic
Offerings and also on the College's website. See below for rules governing the
selection of a program.

#### Declaring a Major

Before or during the second semester of the sophomore year, each student in
the College of Arts and Sciences selects a major in consultation with their
academic advisor. The student applies to the department or committee
administering major studies in that field for admission to the major.

The Declaration of Major Form is used for this purpose and is available online
through Casadvising.syr.edu on the Academic Forms page. To declare a major
officially, a student secures the signature of the appropriate department or
committee chair, or program director, on this form and returns the form to the
Advising and Career Services office. Students who fail to submit a completed
Declaration of Major Form to the college Advising and Career Services office
before earning 60 total credits will be declared ineligible to register for
subsequent semesters.

At various times, students are asked to state on other routine forms,
including the admissions application, what their major will be. Such
declarations are informal expressions of interest and intent and are not
binding, either on the part of the student or the department/program (or
committee). Completion of such routine forms does not secure admission to any
major program. Only submission of the Declaration of Major Form, with the
appropriate signatures can accomplish that end.

#### Changing Majors

Students may change a major at any time before registration for the last full
semester of study by submitting a new Declaration of Major Form with the
approval of the new major department/program or committee.

#### Double Majors

Students may wish to declare, to fulfill the requirements for, and to graduate
with two or more majors. To do so, they should indicate both majors and obtain
the appropriate signatures on the Declaration of Major Form. The second major
may be added no later than the registration period for the last full semester
of study.

### Special Degree Options and Combinations

#### Double Majors

Two majors may be pursued simultaneously in the College of Arts and Sciences/
Maxwell, or in the college and another school or college at the University.
Students must fulfill all the requirements for both majors as well as all
other degree requirements of The College. A single degree is conferred by the
College. The two majors appear on the transcript. In order to be awarded a BA
in a program, a student must earn at least 12 upper division credits uniquely
counting toward the B.A. In order to be awarded a B.S. in a program, a student
must earn at least 15 upper division credits uniquely counting toward the B.S.
In the case of the Integrated Learning Majors, a student must earn at least 12
upper division credits uniquely counting towards the B.A. or B.S. Students
singly enrolled in the College who have a second major in another school or
college must still earn the minimum of 96 credits in the College of Arts and
Sciences.

Please note: Arts and Sciences students may not declare the double major in
any of the following areas: English education; science education; mathematics
education; social studies education; Spanish education; advertising; broadcast
journalism; graphic arts; magazine; newswriting; photography; public
relations; television, radio, and film. These majors require dual enrollment.

### University Requirement

First Year Seminar

### Liberal Arts Core

The Liberal Arts Core requirements are a set of principles that flexibly guide
students to select courses and serve to define the common structural core of a
liberal arts education at Syracuse. They were devised and adopted by the
faculty of the College. They assure that each student's course of study
includes the most important features of an education in the liberal arts. The
fundamental parts to the Liberal Arts Core requirements are: I. Liberal
Skills; II. Divisional Perspectives; III. Critical Reflections, and IV. IDEA
Course Requirement .

#### I. Liberal Skills

The Liberal Skills Requirement asks each student to further develop
fundamental intellectual skills of effective writing and gives the student a
choice of whether to satisfy a requirement in second language skills or
quantitative skills.

#### II. Divisional Perspective

  1. A student must take four 3- or 4-credit courses in each of the three curricular divisions of the College of Arts and Sciences: the Humanities, the Natural Sciences and Mathematics, and the Social Sciences divisions.
  2. In each division, two of the courses must constitute an approved sequence.
  3. Of the twelve courses used to satisfy the Divisional Perspective Requirement, no more than three courses may be taken from a single department or program (even if the courses of the department or program are in more than one division), with the exception of 3-credit HNR courses offered by the Renée Crown Honors University Program. Any course cross-listed is considered to belong to each of the departments in the cross-listing. Therefore, it counts as one of the maximum of three allowed from a single department to fulfill the Divisional Perspective Requirement. Experience Credit and Independent Study credit cannot be used to satisfy the Divisional Perspective Requirement.
  4. In each division, no more than one course may be selected from schools and colleges outside the College of Arts and Sciences.
  5. In the Natural Sciences and Mathematics Division, at least one laboratory course must be included.

#### III. Critical Reflections Requirement

Students are required to take three courses from the list provided on the
College of Arts and Sciences web site. These courses may be simultaneously
used to partially satisfy other liberal arts core requirements or requirements
for majors and minors.

Transfer credit is not accepted for Critical Reflections requirements except
when defined in articulation agreements.

#### IV. IDEA Course Requirement

The IDEA course requirement provides undergraduate students the opportunity to
explore concepts in social justice, broadly defined. The IDEA acronym
encapsulates the core concepts of Inclusion, Diversity, Equity, and
Accessibility. These concepts are integral to models of social justice, and
through their examination students can learn about important values, voices,
and lives that have been marginalized and erased, along with strategies to
create stronger and more just communities.

Students are required to take two courses from the list found here . These
courses may be simultaneously used to partially satisfy other Liberal Arts
Core requirements or requirements for majors and minors.

Transfer credit is not accepted for IDEA requirements.

**Liberal Skills Requirement**

  * Writing Skills Requirement
  * Language Skills Requirement
  * Quantitative Skills Requirement  __
  * Writing Intensive Requirement

**Divisional Perspective Requirement**

  * Humanities Division
  * Natural Sciences and Mathematics Division
  * Social Sciences Division

**Critical Reflections Requirement**

  * Critical Reflections on Ethical and Social Issues Requirement

**IDEA Course Requirement**

  * Inclusion, Diversity, Equity, and Accessibility

### Special Degree Offerings

For additional information on the following options, contact: Advising and
Career Services Office:  
342 Hall of Languages  
Call: 315-443-3150  
E-mail: casadvising@syr.edu

#### Options for Study in the College of Arts and Sciences

There are two general options for study leading to the B.A. or B.S. degree for
undergraduates in the College of Arts and Sciences: the Standard Program and
the Selected Studies Program.

The Standard Program involves the Liberal Arts Core, a major, electives and,
perhaps, a minor or an additional major. The first two years are devoted
largely to work that satisfies requirements of the Liberal Arts Core. Each
student must have a primary major before they reach 60 credits.

The selected studies program offers the student an opportunity to develop a
highly individualized curricular plan. This program, which can lead to the
B.A. or the B.S. degree, is intended to meet individual needs. It provides
considerable freedom in curricular planning, but also requires greatly
increased responsibility on the part of the student. Each student in the
selected studies program develops a four-year program of study based on
academic goals. They are assisted by a faculty advisor who helps to formulate
an academically sound curriculum. For additional information please see
Selected Studies.

#### Combined Programs

The College of Arts and Sciences offers combined programs of study with
certain professional schools and colleges within the University. These
programs lead to two degrees and require at least 30 credits beyond the
minimal requirement for one degree and a total of at least 150 credits. This
means that it generally takes five years (10 semesters) to complete a combined
program. Specific requirements vary from program to program and are described
under individual program headings. Students pursuing a combined program in the
College of Arts and Sciences must complete all college requirements relevant
to the chosen program of study. A minimum of 96 credits in the College of Arts
and Sciences is required. For a general definition and requirements of a
combined program and comparison with other kinds of programs, refer to the
appropriate chart in the Academic Rules section of this catalog.

A combined program in the College of Arts and Sciences is offered with the
College of Engineering and Computer Science and results in the B.A. or B.S. in
Arts and Sciences and the B.S. in Engineering.

#### Dual Enrollments

The College of Arts and Sciences offers dual enrollments in cooperation with
certain professional schools and colleges within the University. These lead to
a single degree jointly authorized and certified by the cooperating colleges.
The standards and procedures for admission vary and are described under
individual headings. With careful course selection and planning, students are
able to finish within four years (eight semesters). (For a general definition
and requirements of a dual program and comparison with other kinds of
programs, refer to the appropriate chart in the Academic Rules section of this
catalog.)

Dual enrollments in Arts and Sciences are offered only with the School of
Education, the Martin J. Whitman School of Management, and the S.I. Newhouse
School of Public Communications.

##### For the Dual program offered with the School of Education:

Contact Office of Academic and Student Services, 111 Waverly Avenue, Suite
230; 315-443-9319, or

For the College of Arts and Sciences, contact Advising and Career Services,
342 Hall of Languages, 315-443-3150, casadvising@syr.edu.

Dual enrollment options in the College of Arts and Sciences and the School of
Education prepare subject matter teachers for grades 7-12, in biology,
chemistry, earth sciences, English, mathematics, physics, social studies and
Spanish. Students complete the Liberal Arts Core of the College of Arts and
Sciences (with some specified courses), depth in the content area to be
taught, and professional coursework and field experiences focusing on the
skills and knowledge necessary to teach students from diverse backgrounds and
with varying abilities. Students receive one bachelor's degree jointly awarded
by both colleges.  Programs require a minimum of 124-127 credits.

##### For the Dual program offered with Martin J. Whitman School of
Management:

Contact Lindsay Quilty, Assistant Dean, the Office of Undergraduate Programs,
Whitman Suite 215, 315-443-2361, or

For the College of Arts and Sciences, contact Advising and Career Services,
342 Hall of Languages, 315-443-3150, casadvising@syr.edu.

Students in the College of Arts and Sciences who are dually enrolled in the
Martin J. Whitman School of Management receive one bachelor's degree jointly
awarded by both colleges in Management and in one of the following programs:
Applied Mathematics, Biology, Biotechnology, Chemistry, International
Relations, Mathematics, and Statistics. At least 140 credits are required to
graduate.

Students who wish to enroll in this program should request dual enrollment at
the time of admission to the University.

##### For the Dual program offered with S.I. Newhouse School of Public
Communications:

Contact S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications, 315 Newhouse 3,
315-443-1908 or

For the College of Arts and Sciences, contact Advising and Career Services,
342 Hall of Languages, 315-443-3150, casadvising@syr.edu

Students in the College of Arts and Sciences who are dually enrolled in the
S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications receive one bachelor's degree
jointly awarded by both colleges.

Students complete the requirements for the B.A. degree or the B.S. degree from
the College of Arts and Sciences, including at least 90 credits in Arts and
Sciences coursework and an Arts and Sciences major, or a selected studies
program approved by the dean of the College of Arts and Sciences. Students
also satisfy requirements for a major in the S. I. Newhouse School of Public
Communications, chosen from the professional fields of advertising; broadcast
and digital journalism; graphic design; magazine; newspaper and online
journalism; photography; public relations; or television, radio, and film. At
least 122 credits, including electives, are required to graduate.

Students who wish to enroll in this program should request dual enrollment at
the time of admission to the University, or they may consult the School of
Public Communications about an intra-University transfer to the dual program.

#### First-Year Students Entering the Dual Program

Students entering the Arts and Sciences/Public Communications Dual Degree in
their first year will be required to satisfy the core requirements for the
dual degree by completing the requirements of the College of Arts and Sciences
Liberal Arts Core.

Students entering the dual program after the first year and who are either
singly enrolled in the College of Arts and Sciences or the S.I. Newhouse
School of Public Communications satisfy the core requirements for the dual
degree by completing the requirements of the school or college in which they
were originally singly enrolled. In either case, the College of Arts and
Sciences is the home college.

### Other Undergraduate Programs of the College

English to Speakers of Other Languages

Contact: Languages, Literatures, and Linguistics, 340C H.B. Crouse,
315-443-2175

Syracuse University offers a program in English to speakers of other languages
(ESOL, ESL) for any student whose native language is not English. After taking
the English Language Assessment Exam (ELAE) and receiving the results,
students are recommended to take courses at the intermediate or advanced
level. At the intermediate level, the program integrates the four skills of
speaking, listening, reading, and writing. At the advanced level, the program
focuses on composition, reading, critical thinking and research paper writing.
For undergraduate students these courses may substitute for courses in the
department of Writing Studies, Rhetoric, and Composition Program.

Renée Crown University Honors Program  
Professor Danielle Taana Smith, Director  
306 Bowne Hall, 315-443-2759

The Renée Crown University Honors Program is a selective, demanding, and
rewarding program for outstanding students who seek intense intellectual
challenge and are prepared to invest the extra effort required to meet that
challenge.

It is marked by four distinguishing characteristics:

  * heightened expectations;
  * participation in a vibrant and active community of learners;
  * intensity of intellectual experience; and
  * special intellectual opportunities and responsibilities.

The program is open to qualified students from all undergraduate majors at
Syracuse University. Its requirements, supplemental to those of their majors,
stipulate that they demonstrate the attributes of depth, breadth, command of
language, global awareness, civic engagement, and collaborative capacity.

Additional information can be found under Renee Crown University Honors
Program in the catalog under Academic Offerings, Other Programs.

Soling Program

Contact: Office of Curriculum, Instruction and Programs, 441 Hall of
Languages, 315-443-2875

The Soling Program is an all-University program whose purpose is to foster
creative and collaborative work across academic boundaries. The program
focuses on problem-solving, experiential learning, and originality. Students
often work as multidisciplinary teams to explore solutions to specific, real-
world problems posed by the University or the community. Students from
different colleges typically work on projects with broader applications than
usually found in academic courses.

#### Undergraduate Research Program

342 Hall of Languages, 315-443-3150

The Undergraduate Research Program (URP), housed in the College of Arts and
Sciences but open to qualified participants from other colleges, exists to
provide non-classroom, credit-bearing educational opportunities to
undergraduate students. Interested qualified students work closely with Arts
and Sciences faculty members in faculty-generated research projects, other
projects representing the faculty member's academic interests, learning
environments provided by professionals affiliated with the College of Arts and
Sciences, or eligible off-campus internships with an identified Arts and
Sciences advisor. The program features the apprenticeship model, and students
gain firsthand experience in creative and investigative academic processes,
translate theory into practice, explore the cutting edges of particular
disciplines, develop closer working relationships with faculty members, and
enhance their own career and educational credentials.

#### Faculty Participation

The program offers Arts and Sciences faculty members a chance to extend and
expand the character of their teaching in the undergraduate context, to work
closely with self-selecting, highly motivated students, to attract excellent
students to continued study in their particular field of study, and to open
both internal and external funding possibilities by way of undergraduate
involvement in their work. Faculty member are invited to propose projects to
the College. Individual projects may extend beyond a semester in length as
appropriate. The character and requirements of these projects, as well as the
number of credits involved, vary greatly, since they come from across the
disciplines of the College of Arts and Sciences, and sometimes from other
colleges as well. The common criterion for all, however, is appropriateness to
an educational credit-bearing experience for qualified undergraduate students.

#### Syracuse University Abroad

Erika Wilkens, Assistant Provost and Executive Director  
106 Walnut Place, 315-443-3471

Syracuse Abroad offers undergraduate and graduate students the opportunity to
study, research, and intern abroad. Ranked among the top-quality study abroad
programs in the U.S., Syracuse Abroad has centers in six locations - London,
Florence, Madrid, Strasbourg, Hong Kong, and Santiago, Chile - as well as
summer, faculty-led short term and World Partner semester options offering 100
programs in 60 countries. All center programs and over 34 summer programs are
available to Syracuse and visiting students alike. These programs provide
fully accredited Syracuse University courses for students in majors and
disciplines across the College.

Visit Syracuse University Abroad for the latest information about program
availability.

#### Programs

**Major**

  * • African American Studies, BA
  * • Anthropology, BA
  * • Applied Mathematics, BA
  * • Applied Mathematics, BS
  * • Art History, BA
  * • Biochemistry, BS
  * • Biology, BA
  * • Biology, BS
  * • Biotechnology, BS
  * • Chemistry, BA
  * • Chemistry, BS
  * • Citizenship & Civic Engagement, BA
  * • Classical Civilization, BA
  * • Classics, BA
  * • Communication Sciences and Disorders, BS
  * • Creative Writing, BA
  * • Digital Humanities, BA
  * • Earth Sciences, BA
  * • Economics, BA
  * • Economics, BS
  * • English and Textual Studies, BA
  * • English Education (Dual), BA
  * • Environment, Sustainability, and Policy BA
  * • Environment, Sustainability, and Policy BS
  * • Environmental Geoscience, B.S.
  * • Ethics, BA
  * • Ethics, BS
  * • Fine Arts, BA
  * • Forensic Science, BA
  * • Forensic Science, BS
  * • French and Francophone Studies, BA
  * • Geography, BA
  * • Geology, BS
  * • German Language, Literature, and Culture, BA
  * • Health Humanities, BA
  * • History of Architecture, BA
  * • History, BA
  * • International Relations & Management, BS Dual
  * • International Relations, BA
  * • International Relations, BS
  * • Italian Language, Literature and Culture, BA
  * • Latino-Latin American Studies, BA
  * • Law, Society, and Policy, BA
  * • Linguistic Studies, BA
  * • Mathematics Education (Dual), BA
  * • Mathematics Education (Dual), BS
  * • Mathematics, BA
  * • Mathematics, BS
  * • Middle Eastern Studies, BA
  * • Modern Foreign Language, BA
  * • Modern Jewish Studies, BA
  * • Music History and Cultures, BA
  * • Neuroscience, BA
  * • Neuroscience, BS
  * • Philosophy, BA
  * • Physics, BA
  * • Physics, BS
  * • Policy Studies, BA
  * • Political Philosophy, BA
  * • Political Science, BA
  * • Psychology, BA
  * • Psychology, BS
  * • Religion, BA
  * • Russian Language, Literature, and Culture, BA
  * • Science Education-Biology (Dual), BA
  * • Science Education-Biology (Dual), BS
  * • Science Education-Chemistry (Dual), BA
  * • Science Education-Chemistry (Dual), BS
  * • Science Education-Earth Science (Dual), BA
  * • Science Education-Earth Science (Dual), BS
  * • Science Education-Physics (Dual), BA
  * • Science Education-Physics (Dual), BS
  * • Selected Studies in Arts and Sciences, BA
  * • Selected Studies in Arts and Sciences, BS
  * • Social Studies Education (Dual), BA
  * • Sociology, BA
  * • Spanish Education (Dual), BA (Not admitting students as of Fall 2023)
  * • Spanish Language, Literature and Culture, BA
  * • Statistics, BA
  * • Statistics, BS
  * • Women's and Gender Studies, BA
  * • Writing and Rhetoric, BA

**Minor**

  * • African American Studies Minor
  * • Anthropology Minor
  * • Applied Statistics Minor
  * • Arabic Studies Minor
  * • Art History Minor
  * • Asian/Asian American Studies Minor
  * • Biology Minor
  * • Chemistry Minor
  * • Chinese Language Minor
  * • Chinese Studies Minor
  * • Classical Civilization Minor
  * • Classics Minor
  * • Cognitive Science Minor
  * • Communication Sciences and Disorders Minor
  * • Creative Writing Minor
  * • Earth Sciences, Minor
  * • Economics Minor
  * • English and Textual Studies Minor
  * • Environment and Society Minor
  * • Fine Arts Minor
  * • Forensic Science Minor
  * • French and Francophone Studies Minor
  * • Geography Minor
  * • German Minor
  * • Global Political Economy Minor
  * • Global Security Studies Minor
  * • History Minor
  * • History of Architecture Minor
  * • Italian Minor
  * • Japanese Studies Minor
  * • Jewish Studies Minor
  * • Latin American Studies Minor
  * • LGBTQ Studies Minor
  * • Linguistic Studies Minor
  * • Logic Minor
  * • Mathematics Minor
  * • Medical Anthropology Minor
  * • Medieval and Renaissance Studies Minor
  * • Middle Eastern Studies Minor
  * • Music History and Cultures Minor
  * • Native American and Indigenous Studies Minor
  * • Philosophy Minor
  * • Physics Minor
  * • Policy Studies Minor
  * • Political Science Minor
  * • Professional and Technical Writing Minor
  * • Psychology Minor
  * • Religion Minor
  * • Russian and Central European Studies Minor (Not Admitting Students)
  * • Russian Minor
  * • Sociology Minor
  * • South Asian Studies Minor
  * • Spanish Minor
  * • TESOL (Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages), Minor
  * • Women's and Gender Studies Minor
  * • Writing Minor

**Combined Degree**

  * • 4+1 A&S/Newhouse Combined Degree
  * • Anthropology, BA/International Relations, MA
  * • Anthropology, BA/Public Administration, MPA
  * • Applied Mathematics, BA / Applied Statistics, MS
  * • Applied Mathematics, BS / Applied Statistics, MS
  * • Biotechnology BS/MS
  * • Citizenship and Civic Engagement BA/International Relations MA
  * • Citizenship and Civic Engagement BA/Master of Public Administration MPA
  * • Communication Sciences and Disorders BS/Speech Language Pathology MS
  * • Economics, BA/International Relations, MA
  * • Economics, BA/Public Administration, MPA
  * • Geography, BA/International Relations, MA
  * • Geography, BA/Public Administration, MPA
  * • History, BA/International Relations, MA
  * • History, BA/Public Administration, MPA
  * • International Relations, BA / International Relations, MA
  * • International Relations, BA/ Public Administration, MPA
  * • International Relations, BS / International Relations, MA
  * • International Relations, BS/ Public Administration, MPA
  * • Mathematics, BA / Applied Statistics, MS
  * • Mathematics, BS / Applied Statistics, MS
  * • Policy Studies, BA/International Relations, MA
  * • Policy Studies, BA/Public Administration, MPA
  * • Political Science, BA/International Relations, MA
  * • Political Science, BA/Public Administration, MPA
  * • Sociology, BA/ International Relations, MA
  * • Sociology, BA/Public Administration, MPA

**Certificate**

  * • Iroquois Linguistics for Language Learners Certificate
  * • Medicolegal Death Investigation Certificate

  

* * *

![Print this page.](img/print.gif)Print this Page

Facebook this Page (opens a new window)

Tweet this Page (opens a new window)  
  
|  Global Search Catalog Search  
Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Schools and Colleges
Academic Rules Entire Catalog  
Search Keyword Field  
  
Whole Word/Phrase  
Advanced Search  
  
---  
  
* * *  
  
Catalog Navigation |  Catalog Home

* * *

General Information

* * *

Academic Rules

* * *

Undergraduate University Requirements Syracuse University's Shared
Competencies

* * *

Academic Offerings Other Programs Courses

* * *

School of Architecture College of Arts and Sciences School of Education
College of Engineering and Computer Science David B. Falk College of Sport and
Human Dynamics School of Information Studies Martin J. Whitman School of
Management Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs S.I. Newhouse
School of Public Communications College of Professional Studies College of
Visual and Performing Arts SUNY-ESF (Partner Institution)

* * *

Archived Catalogs  
---  
  
* * *  
  
All catalogs (C) 2024 Syracuse University. Powered by Modern Campus Catalog™. | 

