Skip to Content

#

|

##  Course Catalog

Office of the Registrar, 106 Steele Hall Syracuse, NY 13244 | (315) 443-2422

  * ﻿ Like Us on Facebook
  * ﻿ Follow Us on Twitter

  * Accessibility
  * Accreditation
  * Emergencies
  * Privacy

  
---  
2023-2024 Graduate Course Catalog Syracuse University |   
|  |  2023-2024 Graduate Course Catalog |  |  Select a Catalog 2024-2025 Undergraduate Course Catalog 2024-2025 Graduate Course Catalog 2023-2024 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2023-2024 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2022-2023 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2022-2023 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2014-2015 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2014-2015 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] |   
---|---  
|  Sep 19, 2024  |   
|  |  **HELP** 2023-2024 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]  

#  College of Engineering and Computer Science

![Print this page.](img/print.gif)Print this Page Facebook this Page (opens a
new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window)  
---  
  
* * *  
  
  * Academic Offerings
  *   *   * About the College
  * Educational Mission and Vision

|

  * Graduate Program Overview

  
---|---  
  
![](/mime/media//Dean%20J%20Cole%20Smith.JPG)J. Cole Smith, Dean  
223 Link Hall  
eng-cs.syr.edu

### About the College

Founded in 1901, Syracuse University's College of Engineering and Computer
Science (ECS) enjoys a long-standing reputation for excellence and innovation.
The college community is composed of outstanding students, faculty, and staff
who are dedicated to personal excellence and success. The demand for
individuals with degrees in engineering and computer science is greater than
ever: Not only in traditional engineering settings, but also in areas such as
law, medicine, public policy, finance, management, and communications.

Today's engineers and computer scientists must possess a broader set of
perspectives, experiences, and skills to contribute successfully in a dynamic,
rapidly changing world. ECS offers courses and programs that are designed to
prepare leaders for a high-technology, diverse, and knowledge-based global
community. Through courses and experiential learning, ECS offers students a
breadth of opportunities and experiences that is unmatched by programs at most
other universities.

### Educational Mission and Vision

#### The College Mission

The mission of the college is to promote learning in engineering and computer
science through integrated activities in teaching, research, scholarship,
creative accomplishments, and service.

#### The College Vision

The vision of the college is to earn recognition among universities for
engineering and computer science programs that prepare leaders for a high-
technology, knowledge-based, global community. The vision for ECS is a
distinct student-centered research university model for engineering and
computer science education. Features of this model include the following:

  * the commitment that all programs relate directly to students and their learning experiences;
  * the commitment that research is an integral element of the learning environment;
  * the flexibility for students to pursue the diversity of learning opportunities available in a broad university setting; and
  * the commitment to world-class quality in courses and programs.

### Graduate Program Overview

The College of Engineering and Computer Science was established in 1901, the
fifth of the 11 schools and colleges within Syracuse University today. The
college is dedicated to graduate as well as undergraduate education in
engineering, computer science, systems and information science, and research.
Its research efforts contribute significantly to student development as well
as to the continued professional growth of the faculty. Graduate education and
research, particularly at the Ph.D. level, are inseparable.

**Distance Programs**

The College of Engineering and Computer Science has a long and proud history
of preparing students to produce practical and sustainable solutions for the
most important technological, scientific, and social challenges impacting the
future. Through our highly interactive online degree programs, students
develop the skills to address critical issues ranging from national security
threats to building energy efficient systems. Our online master's degree
programs take education beyond theoretical learning with inclusive,
interdisciplinary, and collaborative experiences that prepare graduates to
solve real-world problems.

Through cutting-edge research, curricular innovations, and multidisciplinary
collaboration, the **Master of Science in Cybersecurity** prepares students to
identify, prevent, and counteract cybercrime. Students in the M.S. in
Cybersecurity program develop the expertise to design and develop secure,
assured systems. Curriculum focuses on: Design of new systems that are
inherently secure; Protection of systems such as web, mobile, and critical
infrastructures; Systems assurance through application of mathematical logic;
Analysis and detection of malware and other cyberattacks; and Data mining and
anomaly detection to identify suspicious cyber behavior.

The **Master of Science in Computer Science** program prepares students to
discover groundbreaking solutions to the world's most complex technological
challenges. Through a curriculum that places an emphasis on mathematical
evaluation, the program prepares students to: Incorporate emerging
technologies into new system designs; Develop expertise in areas such as
security and assurance, artificial intelligence, computer architecture, and
advanced programming; and build the analytical, critical-thinking, and
mathematical skills necessary to take on advanced challenges.

The **Master of Science in Computer Engineering program** teaches students to
create groundbreaking hardware, software, and assured solutions for new and
emerging systems. The M.S. in Computer Engineering curriculum is crafted
around our faculty's groundbreaking research in the areas of: Artificial
intelligence; Application of data mining methodologies; Assured systems that
degrade the face of attack and failure; and the Intersection of computational
complexity, formal methods, and programing language semantics. Students learn
innovative thinking strategies and solve computer engineering challenges in
areas such as security and assurance, network systems, computer architecture,
and advanced programming. Students in all of our online programs complete an
academically rigorous curriculum and learn in an online environment that
mirrors the close interactions of traditional residential degree programs.
Courses are taught by many of the same faculty members who teach on campus and
faculty are trained in the unique aspects of teaching online. In addition to
theoretical learning, our online programs challenge students with inclusive,
interdisciplinary experiences that prepare them for real-world applications
that enhance their computational, analytical, critical-thinking, and problem-
solving skills.

The **Master of Science in Engineering Management program** Master the next
challenges in your career with a degree designed specifically for engineering
professionals. Our rigorous 30-credit curriculum provides essential
leadership, managerial, and technical skills taught by experienced Syracuse
University faculty. Gain proficiency in engineering economics, technology
management, and business solutions. Integrate technical and business skills to
tackle complex problems and find sustainable solutions. Strengthen your
knowledge of statistics, product development, simulation, and data analytics.

More information about Syracuse University's College of Engineering and
Computer Science online graduate programs can be found at
https://www.syracuse.edu/online/

For a complete listing of faculty affiliated with the College of Engineering
and Computer Science, see the Faculty section.

#### Admission

Applicants must complete the application for admission found online at
www.applyweb.com/cgi-bin/app?s=syr. Please see current guidance on taking
standardized tests such as the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) and Test of
English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) as it pertains to your program of
interest.

Please note that failure to see that transcripts, letters of recommendation,
or standardized test scores may delay processing. It is advisable to apply as
early as possible.

Nonmatriculated students may register through University College. Up to 12
credits of nonmatriculated graduate credit may be transferred toward a degree
program if the applicant is subsequently admitted. Performance in courses
taken for nonmatriculated credit carries considerable weight in evaluating the
application.

#### Graduate Awards

Syracuse University fellowships are awarded competitively from applications
received by January 1. Doctoral fellows receive a stipend, plus a tuition
scholarship of 30 credits for the academic year. Fellows devote full time to
their studies and dissertation research.

Graduate assistantships in the form of research assistantships and teaching
assistantships are awarded on a competitive basis from among applications
received by the due date corresponding to that program; assistantships are
usually not available at any other time of the year. Research assistants are
required to assist their sponsoring faculty to perform research. Teaching
assistants are required to assist with teaching instruction, while conducting
their own graduate study.  
Recipients of these assistantships receive a stipend in addition to a tuition
scholarship for up to 24 credits per year.

Information about programs to support graduate students from ethnic minority
groups (African, Latino, and Native American) that are underrepresented in
science and engineering fields can be found in the publication Graduate Study:
College of Engineering and Computer Science.

To apply for fellowships or assistantships, check the proper place on the
application for admission.

#### Programs

**Master 's**

  * • Biomedical Engineering, MS
  * • Chemical Engineering, MS
  * • Civil Engineering, MS
  * • Computer Engineering (Online Program), MS
  * • Computer Engineering, MS
  * • Computer Science (Online Program), MS
  * • Computer Science, MS
  * • Cybersecurity (Online Format), MS
  * • Cybersecurity, MS
  * • Electrical Engineering (Distance Format), MS
  * • Electrical Engineering, MS
  * • Engineering Management (Distance Format), MS
  * • Engineering Management, MS
  * • Environmental Engineering Science, M.S.
  * • Environmental Engineering, M.S.
  * • Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, MS
  * • Operations Research and System Analytics, MS

**Doctorate**

  * • Biomedical Engineering, PhD
  * • Chemical Engineering, PhD
  * • Civil Engineering, Ph.D.
  * • Computer & Information Science & Engineering, PhD
  * • Electrical & Computer Engineering, PhD
  * • Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, PhD

**Combined Degree**

  * • Aerospace Engineering, BS/Engineering Management, MS
  * • Aerospace Engineering, BS/Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, MS
  * • Aerospace Engineering/Business Administration (3-2 Program), BS/MBA
  * • Biomedical Engineering, BS/Engineering Management, MS
  * • Biomedical Engineering, BS/MS
  * • Biomedical Engineering/Business Administration, BS/MBA
  * • Chemical Engineering, BS/Engineering Management, MS
  * • Chemical Engineering, BS/MS
  * • Chemical Engineering/Business Administration (3-2 Program), BS/MBA
  * • Civil Engineering, BS/MS
  * • Civil Engineering/Business Administration (3-2 Program), BS/MBA
  * • Computer Engineering, BS/MS
  * • Computer Engineering/Business Administration (3-2 Program), BS/MBA
  * • Computer Science, BS/MS
  * • Computer Science/Business Administration (3-2 Program), BS/MBA
  * • Electrical Engineering, BS/MS
  * • Electrical Engineering/Business Administration (3-2 Program), BS/MBA
  * • Environmental Engineering, BS/Environmental Engineering, MS
  * • Environmental Engineering/Business Administration (3-2 Program), BS/MBA
  * • Law/Computer Science, JD/MS
  * • Mechanical Engineering, BS/Engineering Management, MS
  * • Mechanical Engineering, BS/Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, MS
  * • Mechanical Engineering/Business Administration (3-2 Program), BS/MBA

  

* * *

![Print this page.](img/print.gif)Print this Page

Facebook this Page (opens a new window)

Tweet this Page (opens a new window)  
  
|  Global Search Catalog Search  
Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Schools and Colleges
Academic Rules Entire Catalog  
Search Keyword Field  
  
Whole Word/Phrase  
Advanced Search  
  
---  
  
* * *  
  
Catalog Navigation |  Catalog Home

* * *

General Information

* * *

Academic Rules

* * *

Academic Offerings Other Programs Courses

* * *

School of Architecture College of Arts and Sciences School of Education
College of Engineering and Computer Science David B. Falk College of Sport and
Human Dynamics School of Information Studies College of Law Martin J. Whitman
School of Management Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs S.I.
Newhouse School of Public Communications College of Professional Studies
College of Visual and Performing Arts SUNY-ESF (Partner Institution)

* * *

Archived Catalogs  
---  
  
* * *  
  
All catalogs (C) 2024 Syracuse University. Powered by Modern Campus Catalog™. | 

