Skip to Content

#

|

##  Course Catalog

Office of the Registrar, 106 Steele Hall Syracuse, NY 13244 | (315) 443-2422

  * ﻿ Like Us on Facebook
  * ﻿ Follow Us on Twitter

  * Accessibility
  * Accreditation
  * Emergencies
  * Privacy

  
---  
2023-2024 Graduate Course Catalog Syracuse University |   
|  |  2023-2024 Graduate Course Catalog |  |  Select a Catalog 2024-2025 Undergraduate Course Catalog 2024-2025 Graduate Course Catalog 2023-2024 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2023-2024 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2022-2023 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2022-2023 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2014-2015 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2014-2015 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] |   
---|---  
|  Sep 19, 2024  |   
|  |  **HELP** 2023-2024 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]  

#  Martin J. Whitman School of Management

![Print this page.](img/print.gif)Print this Page Facebook this Page (opens a
new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window)  
---  
  
* * *  
  
  * Academic Offerings
  * Faculty
  * Courses
  * About the School
  * Educational Vision, Mission and Core Values
  * Graduate Program Overview

|

  * Graduate Admissions & Financial Aid
  * Graduate Career Services
  * Facilities
  * Research Centers & Institutes

  
---|---  
  
Alexander McKelvie, Interim Dean![Photograph of Dean
Anderson](/mime/media/36/5253/Dean%20McKelvie_Alex.jpg)  
721 University Avenue Suite 415  
whitman.syr.edu

### About the School

Welcome to the Whitman School of Management, a top-ranked business school with
a diverse faculty and strong focus on leadership building and community
engagement. At the Whitman School, students develop a strong business sense
across all aspects of management, providing them with the skills,
opportunities, and motivation necessary to compete in a global environment.

The Whitman School is a state-of-the-art business school in both programming
and facility, reflecting both Syracuse University's commitment and history of
innovative business education and the Whitman School's role as a cutting-edge,
experiential learning environment. The Whitman School emphasizes preparing
students for a world of accelerating change and this includes a modern and
relevant curriculum, impressive co-curricular offerings, industry-focused
certification programs such as supporting all students to be Microsoft Office
Specialist: Excel certified, global travel, courses and networking
opportunities in NYC, and the support of technological resources to ensure
that students have the tools needed to be successful in the classroom.
Students enrolled at the Whitman School enjoy the intimate and interconnected
community of the Whitman School with all the resources and opportunities of a
world-class research university, effectively getting the best of both worlds.

The Whitman School of Management continues to be ranked among the nation's top
business programs. U.S. News and World Report ranked both Whitman's
undergraduate and graduate programs among the best in the nation. The Whitman
full-time residential and part-time, online MBA programs, were identified
among the top AACSB-accredited online graduate programs by U.S. News and World
Report. Whitman's entrepreneurship program has been ranked nationwide by the
United States Association for Small Business and Entrepreneurship;
Entrepreneur Magazine; The Princeton Review; Fortune Small Business; Bloomberg
BusinessWeek, and U.S. News & World Report. The Supply Chain Management
program is also consistently ranked among the top nationally, by Gartner,
among others.

#### Accreditation Information

The Whitman School has been accredited by the Association to Advance
Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB International) since 1920.

### Educational Vision, Mission and Core Values

#### Common Purpose

We inspire students for a world of accelerating change.

#### Vision

We aspire to be a pre-eminent and inclusive school of management that:

  * Prepares students for professional success, engaged citizenship, and lifelong learning;
  * Produces high-impact research that advances business and society.

#### Mission

Whitman's mission is to develop analytic, globally-minded, innovative and
entrepreneurial leaders and professionals through the power of:

  * Transformative learning experiences;
  * Innovative ideas and high-impact research insights;
  * Collaborative networks of lifelong learning and discovery.

We strive to achieve our mission by:

  * Leveraging the breadth and richness of Syracuse University's schools and colleges;
  * Focusing on domains that benefit student learning and in which we can excel;
  * Engaging with our academic, alumni, and industry partners.

#### Whitman's Core Values:

INTEGRITY - We are an ethical community that values transparency,
accountability, responsibility, respect, and professionalism.  
INCLUSION - We strive to be a student-centered community that is supportive of
all. We are open-minded. We engage and encourage diverse backgrounds and
viewpoints.  
COLLABORATION - We believe the whole is greater than the sum of its parts. We
value teamwork as the most successful way to reach our goals.  
INNOVATION - We are forward-thinking with a global mindset, always exploring
new and creative ideas that can bring positive changes to the world.  
EXCELLENCE - We persevere, always challenging ourselves and each other to
improve in pursuit of outstanding quality in processes and outcomes, leading
to overall success.

### Graduate Program Overview

Graduate programs in management have been offered at Whitman since 1948, and
distinguished alumni employed in private, public, and nonprofit sector
organizations attest to their quality. As one of our more than 1,500 full- and
part-time graduate students, the student benefits from the sense of community
that exists within the relatively close-knit graduate student body, while
still being able to take advantage of the resources offered by a major
university of 30,000 students.

The Whitman School offers full-time Master's programs in Professional
Accounting , Business Analytics , Business Administration (MBA) ,
Entrepreneurship & Emerging Enterprises , Finance , Marketing , and Supply
Chain Management along with distance learning programs Business Analytics ,
Business Administration (iMBA) , Entrepreneurship , Professional Accounting ,
and Supply Chain Management .

#### Full-Time MBA

Students in the Whitman MBA program at Syracuse University receive a well-
rounded education that incorporates both the theoretical background and
practical experience needed to succeed in today's ever-changing global
economy. The experiential learning component encourages students to apply
classroom learning to business problems, connect with decision makers, and
deliver tangible results that add value to sponsoring organizations. Students
build an experiential portfolio through internships, consulting, specialized
courses, community engagement, and other practical experiences that make them
more valuable in the marketplace. Students successfully completing
concentrations in accounting, business analytics, finance, marketing, and
supply chain management are classified as STEM-designated. This allows
international students on an F-1 visa to extend their time in OPT (Optional
Practical Training) from 12 to 36 months in the U.S. This makes graduates from
STEM-designated programs more hirable, and they gain valuable experience
relevant to their field of study.

#### iMBA (Distance Learning)

Whitman's online MBA is a distance learning MBA program for working
professionals. For more than 30 years the Whitman School has delivered an MBA
through a uniquely flexible format combining in-person residencies and
distance learning. Residencies are held on the SU campus and in other sites in
the U.S. and abroad. Asynchronous coursework is designed to immerse students
through rich, high-quality video and dynamic, interactive content. Live
sessions of 15-20 students are held each week with faculty via Zoom to allow
faculty and students to discuss course material, cases, problems, projects,
etc.

The online MBA program features the same curricular content, faculty, and
degree as the full-time MBA program at the Whitman School.

The degree awarded to online MBA program graduates is accredited by the AACSB
International and is identical to the degree awarded other Whitman School MBA
graduates.

#### MS Professional Accounting

The MS in Professional Accounting program at the Whitman School of Management
produces graduates with the highest level of professionalism who satisfy the
educational requirements for CPA licensure in New York and many other states.
This rigorous program attracts students with a background in accounting and
those with education in other disciplines. If entering with a bachelor's
degree in accounting, students complete 30-credits in one year while those
without a degree in accounting are required to take up to an additional year
of study depending on the student's previous business and accounting
coursework.

Whitman's MS in Professional Accounting students take advanced courses in
financial statement analysis, international accounting, advanced auditing,
taxes and business strategy, and analytics, along with a variety of electives
to complement their career goals. The curriculum prepares students for the
expanding roles accounting professionals play in business strategy,
consulting, information management, planning, and decision-making.

The MS in Professional Accounting program has been designated as a STEM
(Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) program.

#### MS Professional Accounting (Distance Learning)

The online MS in Professional Accounting is the Whitman School of Management's
programs for working professionals. The online program features the same
curricular content as the full-time MS in Professional Accounting program at
Whitman. Depending on your educational background, you will be placed into one
of three sequences of study:

  * Accounting Sequence (30 Credits) - For students who hold an undergraduate degree in accounting.
  * Business Sequence (33-42 Credits) - For students who hold an undergraduate degree in business.
  * Foundational Sequence (45-48 Credits) - For students who hold an undergraduate degree in any subject other than business or accounting.

The online MS in Professional Accounting delivers the Whitman School's
curriculum through a combination of flexible online learning and personal
connections.

  * Weekly classes are hosted live online
  * Course content is immersive and can be completed from anywhere
  * Courses are designed and delivered by Whitman faculty
  * Students have access to comprehensive support every step of the way

The MS in Professional Accounting program has been designated as a STEM
(Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) program.

#### MS Business Analytics

The MS in Business Analytics challenges students to develop an
interdisciplinary understanding of the applications of analytics to the fields
of accounting, finance, marketing, and supply chain management through
techniques in data collection, data visualization, statistical and pattern
analysis, and data mining. The curriculum leverages an understanding of
business applications from the Whitman School of Management combined with in-
depth technical offerings from the School of Engineering and Computer Science
and the School of Information Studies.

The MS in Business Analytics program has been designated as a STEM (Science,
Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) program.

#### MS Business Analytics (Distance Learning)

The online MS in Business Analytics program helps data-driven thinkers develop
or sharpen their abilities to interpret complex data and guide their
organizations in making more informed and actionable decisions.

Through a combination of interactive online classes, rich media coursework,
and collaborative social connections with peers and faculty, students hone
their decision-making skills and learn to use analytic tools to drive positive
outcomes for businesses.

The MS in Business Analytics program has been designated as a STEM (Science,
Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) program.

#### MS Entrepreneurship and Emerging Enterprise

The 30-credit MS in Entrepreneurship and Emerging Enterprise provides a
rigorous immersion into the nature of entrepreneurship and the entrepreneurial
process. Combining core content with a strong commitment to experiential
learning, the program is targeted to students with a passion for
entrepreneurship in for-profit, social, corporate, and family business
contexts.

The MS in Entrepreneurship and Emerging Enterprise is designed for students
interested in creating growth-oriented for-profit or non-profit ventures,
working as a corporate entrepreneur, or in a family business. Special emphasis
is placed on students from professional disciplines.

#### MS Entrepreneurship (Distance Learning)

The 30-credit online MS in Entrepreneurship prepares current and aspiring
entrepreneurs with the business foundation and networking opportunities to
start a new venture, effectively manage a company, or innovate within an
organization.

#### MS Finance

The MS in Finance has a rigorous curriculum that prepares students to be
leaders in the dynamic, fast-paced, and intellectually challenging world of
finance. The program's core courses explore the nature of capital markets as
they relate to organizational goals and provide an understanding of how broad
principles of finance and quantitative methods can be applied to create
investment strategies.

The MS in Finance is flexible and allows students to customize their degree by
taking elective courses in any of the following areas: statistics, accounting,
economics, investments, risk management, real estate, international business,
and corporate finance. With a state-of-the-art trading room, MS in Finance
students have personal access to current market data, live news feeds,
software for analysis, and other resources used by professionals in the field,
including Bloomberg terminals and Factset data through Whitman's Ballentine
Investment Institute.

The MS in Finance program has been designated as a STEM (Science, Technology,
Engineering and Mathematics) program.

#### MS Marketing

Marketing is the business function of creating, communicating and delivering
value to customers with whom the firm seeks to establish and maintain
profitable long-term relationships. Effective marketing in today's dynamic and
complex marketplace requires sophisticated strategic thinking that creatively
matches a firm's unique capabilities with profitable market opportunities
based upon solid analysis of market data and coordinated implementation of
product, pricing, distribution and promotion policies. The MS in Marketing
degree program focuses on rigorous development of these competencies to
prepare current and aspiring marketing professionals to play leading roles in
the field. The program consists of business foundation courses (3 credits),
required marketing core courses (6 credits), selectives (6 credits) and
electives (15 credits), for a total of 30 credits.

The MS in Marketing has been designated as a STEM (Science, Technology,
Engineering and Mathematics) program.

#### MS Supply Chain Management

The Whitman School is home to the first supply chain program in the country,
established in 1919. With an emphasis on managing risk and uncertainty in
today's global supply chains, this 30 credit-hour program consists of the
Supply Chain Management core, several Supply Chain Management "selective"
courses, and a culminating experience. Students who have satisfactorily
completed the equivalent of any of the required foundation courses in their
undergraduate coursework may substitute courses chosen from the approved
selective course list.

The MS in Supply Chain Management has been designated as a STEM (Science,
Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) program.

MS Supply Chain Management (Distance Learning)

The online MS in Supply Chain Management is designed for working
professionals. The program features the same curricular content as the full-
time MS in Supply Chain Management program at Whitman.

The MS in Supply Chain Management has been designated as a STEM (Science,
Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) program.

### Graduate Admissions & Financial Aid

#### Admission

Candidates with a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university
are eligible for admission. Full-time MBA, and MS in Business Analytics,
Entrepreneurship & Emerging Enterprises, Finance, Marketing and Supply Chain
Management candidates may apply for fall term admission only. MS Professional
Accounting candidates may apply for fall or spring admission. Online MBA and
MS candidates may apply for January, April, July, and October admission.

Although no specific undergraduate majors are required for admission, the
transition to the rigors of a graduate management program is facilitated by a
basic knowledge of economics, mathematics, and the social sciences.

Full-time work experience before applying for admission to our graduate
programs is a decided advantage. This experience provides a frame of reference
that enables students to relate the concepts and theories presented in class
to the real world.

#### Financial Aid

All full-time, on-campus Whitman graduate candidates are considered for a
Whitman merit-based scholarship. Financial need is not taken into account in
the selection process. The awarding process takes into consideration all
materials submitted in the candidate's admission application.

Students may apply for several loan programs to cover the cost of attendance
such as the Federal Direct Unsubsidized Loan, the Federal PLUS Loan, or
various alternative/private education loans. Students must be enrolled at
least half-time during each term in which they wish to borrow an educational
loan.

#### Additional Information

Detailed information about application deadlines, admissions requirements,
programs, courses, facilities, costs, financial aid, student activities, and
services can be found online at whitman.syracuse.edu. It also includes
instructions for submitting an application for admission.

Students interested in graduate management programs at Syracuse should consult
the web site for complete information.

### Graduate Career Services

The Whitman Career Center works closely with full-time, on-campus students to
create a personalized career plan that integrates academic training with
experiential learning and the acquisition of internship placements that sets
students on the right path for achieving their career goals. On-boarding
begins at the point of admissions with students tackling assignments that
create awareness of their strengths, and the application of their experiences
to their future goals. At orientation, students address assignments that
continue to build a career plan that supports internship placement, selection
of a concentration, and identification of experiential learning options The
goal of these efforts is to provide students a holistic viewpoint of their
career assets, and the development of lifetime career management skills.

Armed with a career plan, students have access to the SU posting board called
"Handshake" where employment opportunities are listed for student review and
application. The Whitman School uses this and other systems to promote our
students as candidates to businesses throughout the world. Students are also
encouraged to take advantage of national career fairs to promote their
careers, and to acquire internships and permanent employment.

From the beginning of students' degree program through graduation, the Whitman
Career Center works in partnership with you to assist students in achieving
career goals.

#### Graduate Internships

Graduate internships provide opportunities for full-time, on-campus MBA
students to gain practical, professional experience. These opportunities
integrate classroom instruction with activities in the business world.

Internships may be for a semester full time, a semester part time, or a summer
full time. Companies are asked to provide challenging project-related
internships, which may be either salaried or non-salaried. The intern may
combine academic credit with the experience by completing a three-credit
independent research project under the direction of a faculty member.

#### Study Abroad and Global Internships

As a pervasive theme in every Whitman School of Management program, managing
in a global setting takes on special meaning for Syracuse students who may
elect to spend time in one of the Syracuse study centers, attend shorter
residency programs around the world, or work on global projects. Students take
course credits, work in pre-arranged internships, or experience the cultural
and business environments in London, New York City, Shanghai, and Singapore.
Recent international residency programs have included Costa Rica, Dubai,
Dublin, Florence, Hong Kong, London, Panama, Seoul, and Stockholm, among
others.

Syracuse students have interned overseas with financial firms such as Morgan
Stanley and National Westminster Bank in London, multinationals such as
Johnson & Johnson and General Electric in Singapore, and assist in operating
small and medium-sized enterprises in China. Interested students should apply
early and plan their programs of study to allow for a summer away from campus.

### Facilities

The Whitman School of Management's 160,000-square-foot sustainable building
opened in 2005, with a central focus on students and creating an environment
that promotes a culture of collegiality and a high-tech, world-class learning
experience. To provide that experience, the Whitman School creates an open
community atmosphere with advanced resources and team-oriented learning
spaces, including:

  * 22 classrooms
  * 200-seat auditorium
  * 20 team meeting rooms each for graduate and undergraduate students
  * three-story, 4000-square-foot Grand Hall
  * undergraduate and graduate computer clusters
  * 74 faculty offices
  * a faculty research center
  * an Investment Research Center
  * a center for entrepreneurial start-ups
  * a 100-seat cafe
  * a special-events room with outdoor terrace

The Whitman School of Management's building is dedicated to sustainability,
providing environmentally friendly resources and features for an enhanced
"green" experience.

### Research Centers & Institutes

The Whitman School building boasts many spaces for innovative and
collaborative research that provide experiential learning and prepare students
for careers across a broad range of business areas. Sophisticated software and
integrated technology coupled with advanced workshops and seminars create an
ideal learning atmosphere. Whitman's diverse research centers and institutes
include:

  * Africa Business Program
  * The Ballentine Investment Institute
  * The George E. Bennett Center for Tax Research
  * The Robert H. Brethen Operations Management Institute
  * The Michael J. Falcone Center for Entrepreneurship
  * The H. H. Franklin Center for Supply Chain Management
  * The Infrastructure Institute
  * The Institute for and Entrepreneurial Society
  * Goodman Leadership Center/Goodman IMPRESS Program
  * The Olivia and Walter Kiebach Center for International Business Studies
  * The James D. Kuhn Real Estate Center
  * The Harry E. Salzberg Memorial Program
  * The Earl V. Snyder Innovation Management Center
  * Sustainable Enterprise Partnership
  * Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse (TRAC)

#### Programs

**Master 's**

  * • Business Administration (iMBA), MBA (Distance Learning)
  * • Business Administration, MBA
  * • Business Analytics MS
  * • Entrepreneurship & Emerging Enterprises, MS
  * • Entrepreneurship, MS (Distance Learning)
  * • Finance, MS
  * • Marketing, MS
  * • Professional Accounting, MS
  * • Professional Accounting, MS (Distance Learning)
  * • Supply Chain Management, MS
  * • Supply Chain Management, MS (Distance Learning)

**Doctorate**

  * • Business Administration, PhD

**Combined Degree**

  * • Aerospace Engineering/Business Administration (3-2 Program), BS/MBA
  * • Biomedical Engineering/Business Administration, BS/MBA
  * • Biotechnology, MS/Business Administration, MBA
  * • Chemical Engineering/Business Administration (3-2 Program), BS/MBA
  * • Civil Engineering/Business Administration (3-2 Program), BS/MBA
  * • Computer Engineering/Business Administration (3-2 Program), BS/MBA
  * • Computer Science/Business Administration (3+2 Program), BS/MBA
  * • Defense Comptrollership, MBA/EMPA
  * • Electrical Engineering/Business Administration (3-2 Program), BS/MBA
  * • Environmental Engineering/Business Administration (3-2 Program), BS/MBA
  * • International Relations, MA/Business Administration, MBA
  * • Law/Business Administration, JD/MBA
  * • Mechanical Engineering/Business Administration (3-2 Program), BS/MBA
  * • Music Industry, BMus/MBA
  * • Public Administration, MPA/Business Administration, MBA
  * • Public Health, MPH/Business Administration, MBA

**Certificate of Advanced Study**

  * • Sustainable Enterprise (CASSE), CAS
  * • Technology Law and Entrepreneurship, CAS

  

* * *

![Print this page.](img/print.gif)Print this Page

Facebook this Page (opens a new window)

Tweet this Page (opens a new window)  
  
|  Global Search Catalog Search  
Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Schools and Colleges
Academic Rules Entire Catalog  
Search Keyword Field  
  
Whole Word/Phrase  
Advanced Search  
  
---  
  
* * *  
  
Catalog Navigation |  Catalog Home

* * *

General Information

* * *

Academic Rules

* * *

Academic Offerings Other Programs Courses

* * *

School of Architecture College of Arts and Sciences School of Education
College of Engineering and Computer Science David B. Falk College of Sport and
Human Dynamics School of Information Studies College of Law Martin J. Whitman
School of Management Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs S.I.
Newhouse School of Public Communications College of Professional Studies
College of Visual and Performing Arts SUNY-ESF (Partner Institution)

* * *

Archived Catalogs  
---  
  
* * *  
  
All catalogs (C) 2024 Syracuse University. Powered by Modern Campus Catalog™. | 

