Skip to Content

#

|

##  Course Catalog

Office of the Registrar, 106 Steele Hall Syracuse, NY 13244 | (315) 443-2422

  * ﻿ Like Us on Facebook
  * ﻿ Follow Us on Twitter

  * Accessibility
  * Accreditation
  * Emergencies
  * Privacy

  
---  
2023-2024 Graduate Course Catalog Syracuse University |   
|  |  2023-2024 Graduate Course Catalog |  |  Select a Catalog 2024-2025 Undergraduate Course Catalog 2024-2025 Graduate Course Catalog 2023-2024 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2023-2024 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2022-2023 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2022-2023 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2014-2015 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2014-2015 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] |   
---|---  
|  Sep 19, 2024  |   
|  |  **HELP** 2023-2024 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]  

#  School of Information Studies

![Print this page.](img/print.gif)Print this Page Facebook this Page (opens a
new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window)  
---  
  
* * *  
  
  * Academic Offerings
  * Faculty
  * Courses
  * About the School

|

  * Vision and Values
  * Graduate Education

  
---|---  
  
![Portrait photograph of David
Seaman](/mime/media/36/5805/Sears-400x300-1.jpg)

Andrew Sears, Dean

### About the School

The Syracuse University School of Information Studies (iSchool) is a leader in
the information field, advancing innovation in the digital age through our
work at the intersection of business, technology, and society.

The iSchool became the original information school in the U.S. when it
embraced information technology and the rise of the internet. Today, we offer
an innovative curriculum that is continually updated to meet future industry
trends and incorporate rapidly changing technologies.

Our faculty combine expertise in information systems, linguistics, computer
science, library science, economics, education, business management, school
media, digital literacy, management information systems, data science,
enterprise and cloud computing, and communication. An active research
community explores topics that reflect the faculty's diverse intellectual
backgrounds and interests.

### Accreditation

Syracuse University is fully accredited by the Middle States Commission on
Higher Education (MSCHE) and all programs are registered with the New York
State Education Department. The MSCHE is a voluntary, non-governmental
membership association that has been dedicated to quality assurance and
improvement through accreditation via peer evaluation since 1919.

The Master of Science in Library and Information Science within Syracuse
University's School of Information Studies (iSchool) is accredited by the
American Library Association. ALA accreditation indicates that the program has
undergone a self-evaluation process, been reviewed by peers, and meets the
standards established by the American Library Association and Committee on
Accreditation.

The iSchool is also a registered Project Management Institute Education
Provider, meaning that the school's curriculum meets an international standard
of best practice in the field of project management.

### Vision and Values

The School of Information Studies, established in 1896 and renamed from the
Original Information School in 1974, has a long tradition of leading
innovation and change. Our ideals and values are the foundation for our
success. To learn more, visit our website.

### Graduate Education

At the School of Information Studies (iSchool), we view information as a
resource that can and should be managed. We seek ways to use existing and
emerging technologies to facilitate the efficient transfer of information from
corporate files, libraries, or digital storage devices to the people and
organizations needing it. As a professional school, the iSchool prepares
graduates for careers as managers and information professionals who will
oversee the development and use of this resource.

### Academic Offerings

#### Programs

**Master 's**

  * • Applied Data Science, MS
  * • Information Systems for Executives, MS
  * • Information Systems, MS
  * • Library and Information Science, MS
  * • Library and Information Science: School Media, MS

**Doctorate**

  * • Information Management, DPS
  * • Information Science and Technology, PhD

**Certificate of Advanced Study**

  * • Cloud Management, CAS
  * • Data Science, CAS
  * • Enterprise Technology Leadership, CAS
  * • Information Security Management, CAS
  * • Information Technology Management, CAS
  * • School Library Media, CAS

  

* * *

![Print this page.](img/print.gif)Print this Page

Facebook this Page (opens a new window)

Tweet this Page (opens a new window)  
  
|  Global Search Catalog Search  
Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Schools and Colleges
Academic Rules Entire Catalog  
Search Keyword Field  
  
Whole Word/Phrase  
Advanced Search  
  
---  
  
* * *  
  
Catalog Navigation |  Catalog Home

* * *

General Information

* * *

Academic Rules

* * *

Academic Offerings Other Programs Courses

* * *

School of Architecture College of Arts and Sciences School of Education
College of Engineering and Computer Science David B. Falk College of Sport and
Human Dynamics School of Information Studies College of Law Martin J. Whitman
School of Management Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs S.I.
Newhouse School of Public Communications College of Professional Studies
College of Visual and Performing Arts SUNY-ESF (Partner Institution)

* * *

Archived Catalogs  
---  
  
* * *  
  
All catalogs (C) 2024 Syracuse University. Powered by Modern Campus Catalog™. | 

