Skip to Content

#

|

##  Course Catalog

Office of the Registrar, 106 Steele Hall Syracuse, NY 13244 | (315) 443-2422

  * ﻿ Like Us on Facebook
  * ﻿ Follow Us on Twitter

  * Accessibility
  * Accreditation
  * Emergencies
  * Privacy

  
---  
2023-2024 Graduate Course Catalog Syracuse University |   
|  |  2023-2024 Graduate Course Catalog |  |  Select a Catalog 2024-2025 Undergraduate Course Catalog 2024-2025 Graduate Course Catalog 2023-2024 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2023-2024 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2022-2023 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2022-2023 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2021-2022 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2014-2015 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2014-2015 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] |   
---|---  
|  Sep 19, 2024  |   
|  |  **HELP** 2023-2024 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]  

#  College of Law

![Print this page.](img/print.gif)Print this Page Facebook this Page (opens a
new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window)  
---  
  
* * *  
  
  * Academic Offerings
  * Faculty
  * Courses
  * About the College of Law
  * Admission
  * Academic Rules & Regulations
  * Enrollment in Law Courses

|

  * Joint Degree Programs
  * Master of Laws (LL.M.)
  * Doctor of Juridical Science (S.J.D) in Law
  * JD Interactive
  * Clinical & Experiential Education
  * Centers & Institutes 

  
---|---  
  
###
![](/mime/media/36/3621/MEH_CollegeOfLaw_DeanBoise_00048_horizontal.jpg)About
the College of Law

  
Craig M. Boise, Dean  
College of Law  
Malfitano Dean's Suite, 408 Dineen Hall

_http://law.syracuse.edu_

#### Message from Dean Boise

Welcome to Syracuse University College of Law, where we pride ourselves on
providing a forward-leaning curriculum that augments doctrinal understanding
of the law with hands-on, experiential learning opportunities that hone your
legal skills and prepare you to excel in today's legal marketplace.

Among our applied learning opportunities, Syracuse Law is home to
interdisciplinary research institutes and centers that collaborate with other
schools and colleges across Syracuse University, providing comprehensive
learning and research experiences.

  * The Institute for Security Policy and Law-a partnership between Syracuse Law and the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs-is a leader in teaching, research, and public service addressing the complex and growing field of national and international security.
  * With a focus on intellectual property-and collaborating with the Whitman School of Management and College of Engineering and Computer Science-students in the Innovation Law Center work on legal and regulatory analyses for entrepreneurial clients who are nurturing new technologies from lab to market. The ILC now offers a Certificate of Advanced Study in Technology Law and Entrepreneurship with the Whitman School of Management.
  * The Burton Blatt Institute (BBI)-a partnership with the School of Education-works to advance the lives of people with disabilities through grant-based program development, innovative research, and legal and policy guidance.

For students who wish to gain practical experience while establishing
professional networks in geographically diverse legal markets, there is our
growing Externship Program. Our robust opportunities provide the flexibility
you need to tailor your experience to your career goals. Students can enroll
in one semester or two semester-long placements. Syracuse Law offers a broad
range of externship opportunities with firms, organizations, judges and
governmental agencies, locally and nationally.

Moreover, externships are offered throughout the country. For students who
wish to gain international legal experience, we offer an immersive
introduction to the UK's legal landscape through LondonEx. Plus, the Orange
Flex program allows students in their 3L year to fulfill graduation
requirements while at an externship placement by taking online classes through
our JDinteractive program.

Offering students flexibility in location and courses, JDinteractive is the
nation's first fully interactive, ABA-approved, online J.D. degree program.
Designed for students who cannot relocate because of work or family
commitments, JDi offers the same degree and high-quality standards as our
residential J.D. program, with a year-round schedule of live online and self-
paced courses, as well as six short residencies.

Syracuse Law students also can take advantage of a unique offering: pursuing a
joint degree at another of the SU's schools and colleges at no (or little)
additional cost. To better position yourself in highly specialized legal
markets, supplement your J.D. with a Master of Science in Public
Administration or International Relations (Maxwell School); Business
Administration (Whitman School), Cultural Foundations of Education (School of
Education), Communications (Newhouse School), Forensic Science (Arts &
Sciences), and more.

Students who wish to develop their advocacy skills find ample opportunity
through the Advocacy Program, ranked #14 in the nation by _U.S. News & World
Report_. The program combines academic courses with multiple intra- and
intercollegiate competitions and three Syracuse-hosted national and
international tournaments. Over the years, Syracuse students have won numerous
national and regional awards at national and international competitions.

At Syracuse Law, you work with student-centered faculty who have practice
experience and whose world-renowned scholarship influences the development of
law and policy around the globe. The academic centerpiece of Syracuse Law's
international programs is the two- or three-semester Master of Laws, a
residential advanced degree program for foreign practicing lawyers, academics,
and judges that focuses on the American legal process.

Our College is fully committed to fostering a campus community that is free
from discrimination and that celebrates the diversity of its community members
within a supportive and inclusive learning environment. Extending this
commitment to our curriculum, we have added diversity, equity and inclusion
academic requirements. We also opened the Hon. Sandra L. Townes L'76
Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Student Resource Center in the second floor
of the library.

The practice of law is as vibrant as ever-with a proliferation of career paths
across multiple sectors-and Syracuse Law has a spectrum of academic and
applied learning offerings to match. Contact our Admissions team and join us
for an innovative and dynamic experience that prepares you for the career of
your choice.

Craig M. Boise  
Dean and Professor of Law

### Admission

Applicants to the College of Law are not required to present college credit in
a particular subject area. A broad general education is helpful preparation
for law study. Above all, prospective law students should be able to use
language effectively. Applicants should have the ability to communicate ideas
orally and in writing with precision and clarity.

The Admissions Committee at the College of Law considers School Admission Test
(LSAT) or the Graduate Record Examinations (GRE) scores and writing samples,
transcripts showing records of prior academic performance, letters of
recommendation, and any other documentation submitted by applicants indicating
likely success in the demanding law school curriculum and legal profession.

### Academic Rules & Regulations

Academic Rules and Regulations may be found by clicking on the link below:  
https://law.syracuse.edu/wp-content/uploads/academic-handbook.pdf

### Enrollment in Law Courses

On a space-available basis, matriculated Main Campus graduate students may
enroll in a limited number of courses at the College of Law with special
approval of the Vice Dean of the College of Law Matriculated Main Campus
graduate students wishing to take law courses should follow the below
procedures.

  1. If space is available, get permission and signature from the law professor to enroll in the course.
  2. The approved forms will be submitted to the College of Law Office of the Registrar for processing.

Students should contact the dean of their home college to determine whether
law courses can be applied toward their graduate degree.

The mere enrollment in a course offered by the College of Law does not
constitute admission to the college. Students must be matriculated in the
College of Law to receive law credit toward the J.D. degree. Consequently, law
credits taken prior to admission to the College of Law will not be accepted
toward the J.D. degree.

### Joint Degree Programs

Joint degree study is an integral part of academic life in the College of Law
to the extent that students who desire a greater degree of specialization may
select from a number of interdisciplinary opportunities. Formal joint degree
programs designed to fit career objectives are available in international
relations, public administration, communications, business administration,
education, forensic science, history, philosophy, political science, and
computer science as listed below. You can find more information here.

Joint degree programs are structured so that students can earn both degrees in
substantially less time than required to earn each degree separately. Students
in the joint degree programs must complete their first year of study in the
College of Law prior to beginning coursework in the other graduate program.

Admission to Joint Degree Programs:  
Those interested in enrolling in a joint degree program must apply and be
admitted to both the College of Law and the other appropriate school or
college of the University. Admission to the College of Law does not guarantee
one's acceptance into another graduate program. Admission to the joint degree
program shall be open to all law students who have a GPA of 2.9 or higher in
all Required Lower-Division Courses at the College of Law. A student's
eligibility for joint degree candidacy must be approved in advance by the
Administrative Hearing Officer as meeting the qualification requirements for
admission to the Joint Degree Program."

The College of Law shall conduct a semi-annual review of each joint degree
candidate's progress in the Joint Degree Program. A faculty advisor from the
joint degree school or department will provide the College of Law with data on
the student's progression that school, college or department. The College of
Law shall determine whether the student is making satisfactory progress under
the following factors: (1) the number of and reasons for "Incompletes" in
course work; (2) failure to maintain a cumulative grade-point average of (GPA)
of 2.9 or above; (3) the student's standing in the non-law degree program; and
(4) progress made and plans for satisfying the writing and optional oral
defense requirements of the joint-degree program.

Minimum Credit Hours:

Students enrolled in joint degree programs, other than the Master of
Professional Studies in Forest and Natural Resources Management at the SUNY
College of Environmental Science and Forestry, must earn a minimum of 72
credit hours required for the J.D. at the College of Law. In addition, a
minimum of 15 credit hours must be earned by successfully completing offerings
outside the College of Law pursuant to the approved joint degree program.

Students enrolled in the Master of Professional Studies in Forest and Natural
Resources Management in the SUNY College of Environmental Science and Forestry
program must take Environmental Law and must earn a minimum of 78 credit hours
required for the J.D. at the College of Law. In addition, a minimum of 9
credit hours must be earned by successfully completing offerings outside of
the College of Law pursuant to the approved joint degree program.

Current College of Law students: please contact the College of Law Office
Registrar's Office, Dineen Hall, Syracuse, NY 13244-1030; 315-443-1146. Email:
lawstudentrecords@syr.edu.

For admissions information, please contact the College of Law Admissions
Office, 315-443-1962, http://law.syr.edu/admissions

For financial aid and scholarship information, please contact the College of
Law Financial Aid Office, 315-443-1962, http://law.syr.edu/financial-aid/

Students with general questions and inquiries concerning procedures regarding
joint degrees should contact lawstudentrecords@syr.edu.

### Master of Laws (LL.M.)

### Syracuse University College of Law LL.M. Program

The Master of Laws (LL.M.) for foreign students at Syracuse University College
of Law is a 24-credit hour graduate Law program designed to offer students
with a foreign law degree or its equivalent, advanced study in American law.
Courses are offered mainly in the Fall (August - December) and Spring (January
- May) semester. A few courses are offered in the summer. In the first
semester, LL.M. students are required to enroll two courses specifically
designed for the LL.M. program: Introduction to the American Legal System (3
credits), and Legal Writing for LL.M. Students (3 credits).  
  
This program is exclusively available to graduates in law from foreign
academic institutions or those who are otherwise licensed to practice law in
their home jurisdictions. We seek people from diverse legal backgrounds,
including corporate, government, private practice, judicial and academic. In
this residential program, each student will take two basic foundational
courses together. One to introduce the students to basics of the American
Legal system and a second in Legal Writing with a third required research
seminar of their choice. The remainder of the program allows the student to
tailor their own experience in the LL.M. from among the superb and diverse
courses offered at the College.

### Doctor of Juridical Science (S.J.D.) in Law

### Syracuse University College of Law S.J.D. Program

The College of Law's Doctor of Juridical Science (S.J.D.) in Law is a research
doctorate, comparable to a Ph.D. in other disciplines. Based primarily on
legal research, S.J.D. students will work under the supervision of a College
of Law faculty member to produce an original dissertation that makes a
substantial contribution to legal scholarship.

The College of Law offers unique academic and research opportunities and
resources to S.J.D. students through its renowned fields of study in domestic,
international, and comparative disability law, national security and
counterterrorism law, intellectual property and technology transfer law, and
other disciplines. S.J.D. students also have the ability to pursue
interdisciplinary coursework and academic engagement with our 13 academic
units, including the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs, the
School of Education, the Falk College of Sport and Human Dynamics, the S.I.
Newhouse School of Public Communication, and the Whitman School of Management.

### JDinteractive

JDinteractive in an ABA-Approved online law degree program that is taught by
Syracuse University College of Law faculty to the same high standards as
Syracuse's residential J.D. program. JDinteractive is a flexible online law
degree option designed for talented students who cannot relocate to law school
because of work or family commitments. The program combines real-time, live
online class sessions with self-paced instruction, on-campus courses, and
experiential learning opportunities. We also offer the nation's first online
joint J.D./M.B.A. degree program in the Whitman School of Management. For more
information, visit https://law.syracuse.edu/academics/jdinteractive-online-j-
d-program/.

### Clinical & Experiential Education

Clinical & Experiential Education may be found by clicking on the link below:

https://law.syracuse.edu/academics/experiential-courses-clinics-
externships/externships/

### Centers & Institutes

Centers & Institutes may be found by clicking on the link below:

https://law.syracuse.edu/academics/centers-institutes/

#### Programs

**Master 's**

  * • Law, LLM

**Doctorate**

  * • Law, JD
  * • Law, SJD

**Combined Degree**

  * • Cultural Foundations of Education, JD/MS/CAS
  * • Law/Advertising, JD/MA
  * • Law/Arts Journalism and Communications, JD/MA
  * • Law/Business Administration, JD/MBA
  * • Law/Computer Science, JD/MS
  * • Law/Forensic Science, JD/MS
  * • Law/History, JD/MA
  * • Law/International Relations, JD/MA
  * • Law/Magazine, News and Digital Journalism, JD/MA
  * • Law/Philosophy, JD/PhD
  * • Law/Political Science, JD/MA
  * • Law/Political Science, JD/PhD
  * • Law/Public Administration, JD/MPA
  * • Law/Public Relations, JD/MS
  * • Law/Television, Radio & Film, JD/MA

**Certificate of Advanced Study**

  * • National Security and Counterterrorism Law, CAS
  * • Postconflict Reconstruction, CAS
  * • Security Studies, CAS
  * • Technology Law and Entrepreneurship, CAS

  

* * *

![Print this page.](img/print.gif)Print this Page

Facebook this Page (opens a new window)

Tweet this Page (opens a new window)  
  
|  Global Search Catalog Search  
Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Schools and Colleges
Academic Rules Entire Catalog  
Search Keyword Field  
  
Whole Word/Phrase  
Advanced Search  
  
---  
  
* * *  
  
Catalog Navigation |  Catalog Home

* * *

General Information

* * *

Academic Rules

* * *

Academic Offerings Other Programs Courses

* * *

School of Architecture College of Arts and Sciences School of Education
College of Engineering and Computer Science David B. Falk College of Sport and
Human Dynamics School of Information Studies College of Law Martin J. Whitman
School of Management Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs S.I.
Newhouse School of Public Communications College of Professional Studies
College of Visual and Performing Arts SUNY-ESF (Partner Institution)

* * *

Archived Catalogs  
---  
  
* * *  
  
All catalogs (C) 2024 Syracuse University. Powered by Modern Campus Catalog™. | 

